script
The sausage-making machine sometimes spits out a different package -- almost always spits out a different package than what is proposed initially. 
These are negotiations primarily through Democrats in Congress with each other. But he's a part of -- he rolls up his sleeves. He gets involved in them too. And he's confident that this is a package, with all of the components included, that -- and he's hopeful that Democrats of allpolitical backgrounds can get behind. 
  All right, finally, something I can relate to, sausage, and what it's like to make it, whether it's hot or sweet or Italian or otherwise. 
The fact of the matter is, they're going to actually go through that making process and for the nation to see later tonight. 
Food for thought. This is some pricey sausage, my friends. And how pricey it gets really is in that label, the $. trillion price tag for this. We're going to be getting into this spending fight right now that divides even some moderate Democrats, who will not go along with certain features, or at least so they are threatening, and some overtures on the part of the president of the United States to satisfy them. 
 on what could be, shall we say, an interesting evening. 
Hey, . 
  Good afternoon, . 
Well, the question is whether Democrats can stick together and pass this $. trillion coronavirus bill. There's an effort to court the votes of moderate Democrats and maybe even a Republican or two. But members of the GOP oppose the bill. 
  It is a wildly out-of-proportion response to where the country is at the moment. The vaccines are going out. The economies are opening up. 
  But Majority Leader Chuck Schumer accused the GOP of opposing the measure for no good reason. 
  It doesn't matter what's in the bill. Everything my colleagues oppose is -- quote -- "a liberal wish list." That's what many of them call it. 
Well, let me tell you, this bill is not a liberal wish list. This is an American wish list. 
  Here's what Democrats have done to sweeten the bill for moderates; $, stimulus checks will only go to those earning less than $, a year. Stripped from the bill, as we reported first on this program yesterday, is the Seaway International Bridge between New York and Canada. And the Silicon Valley Railroad is also gone. 
Now, the Senate may likely stretch out this process. GOP Whip John Thune says Wisconsin Senator Ron Johnson is threatening to make the Senate clerk read the entire bill out loud before debate even begins. 
Now, that means a final vote may not happen until late Friday, if not over the weekend, and then the bill must return to the House of Representatives to sync up -- . 
  So, , the money they supposedly save by tightening some of the restrictions around who gets the stimulus checks, what have you, does that money then come out of the total cost? Is it reallocated somewhere else? What? 
  Dick Durbin, the Democratic whip, he said they were trying to be very careful to make sure that they don't change many contours of the bill, because, as I say, it has to go back to the House. And if they make a lot of changes, then the House might not be in alignment there. That could really stretch this out, say, if they have to go to a conference committee, and just not play ping-pong, where they bounce the bill back and forth. 
We have to see the bill text. We still don't actually have the Senate bill text yet. We're waiting for a score from the Congressional Budget Office and also from the Joint Committee on Taxation. 
  All right, , thank you very, very much. 
So, $., $ trillion, whatever you want to say, is it too much? For even some of the moderate Democrats, it appears to be. Whether that would cancel their votes, hard to say. 
Austan Goolsbee with us right now, the former economic adviser under President Barack Obama, 
Austan, very good to see you. 
  Hey, . 
  This issue with the cost of all of this, at almost $ trillion, all $ trillion right now, is it really necessary to go this big? 
  I usually think of these things as, what's the money being used for? I don't think of this as stimulus. I think of it as a relief package. 
And we saw last summer that the wait-and-see approach, let's wait and see if we need more, is the wrong thing to do in a pandemic. If you're going to have major states get rid of their mask mandates before everybody's got a vaccine, if we're going to get these new variants coming here that are less -- less protected against from the vaccine, you could easily have a ramp-up like the Swamp Thing coming out of the grave, and then we would regret not doing it. 
So, I think, as an insurance policy, you want to go big, and you want to go early, rather than waiting and going smaller. 
  I could see your point for COVID-related issues exclusively. 
What I don't see, though, Austan, leaving aside the $ billion for state and local governments that's kind of open-ended -- we don't know where and how that will be distributed -- but the $ billion to rescue certain pension funds, $ billion for elementary and secondary schools that must be spent in , so next year, $ billion to defray Obamacare premiums, $ billion federal Medicaid matches of states. 
And on and on, it could go. Where you could maybe a side or a tangent argument, as we do in money for transit agencies maybe to get them up to snuff for crowds that will be returning to work, but some of it seems a stretch. And that's about half the package right there. 
  Well, no, leave aside the factual matter of how much are things that you don't -- that you don't like. 
I disagree with you a bit on the question of, should we should only spend money... 
  I'm not saying that I don't like. They aren't directly COVID- related. 
  Aren't directly COVID-related. 
  I'm not saying that I don't like, but isn't directly COVID- related. 
  Should we spend money on things that are not directly health- or COVID-related? 
I think, once you acknowledge that this is a relief bill, that you're trying to prevent permanent damage, and so people don't get evicted from their homes because of a national shock that had nothing to do with them, I think that opens the door to something broader than just direct health spending. I think it's important. 
And that's why this bill and the broad contours of the bill are extremely popular with the American people of both parties. Majority of Republicans say that they like the contours of the bill. 
  I don't know -- I don't know, Austan, if those Americans are aware of all the details in this, or you start looking under the hood. 
I readily agree with you that we have to do something to address these direct COVID-related matters. I just wonder -- for example, in the aid to states, when so many of them are running and getting in more revenues than they thought, that they're not considering hiking taxes, as they're not at least this year in New Jersey and in Connecticut and other states that are surprisingly awash in money they didn't think they would have. 
And I'm hearing all these businesses that are expanding and planning to continue to expand, because they're seeing an unexpected boon in activity on the part of consumers, shoppers. 
  Maybe. I... 
  I'm wondering if we're into overkill mode here. 
  I know you say that, but the actual unemployment rate, if you listen to the Fed chair, he believes that it's close to  percent. 
It's not a good economy. It's a good economy at the top of the income distribution. People who can work from home in knowledge work occupations with good salaries, they have never had a recession. But in the part of the economy that is not that, it's a very tough job market. 
And if you look at the states, the states that are running surpluses, it's because they laid off more than a million workers. 
  Do you argue that it's better than it was at its worst? Do you think it's better than it was when it was at its worst? 
  I hope so, yes. 
  Do you think -- we already know, statistically, we're off our worst unemployment numbers and all. 
  Yes. 
  So, what I'm saying is, I know you're saying, as insurance, spend $ trillion to make sure. That's a very pricey insurance package, especially when you consider a trillion dollars that has yet to be spent from old packages. 
  Well, you say that, but this is -- this is one of those where, as long as this thing goes, it requires relief spending. 
And so this logic that you're applying was the same logic after the CARES Act last March and April. We came into the summer and the virus resurged. And Mitch McConnell and the Republicans said, no, no, let's -- we already passed one thing. Let's see if that works before we pass anything else. 
And, meanwhile, the economy stalled out precisely because they did that. So, I think there is a danger to... 
  Do you think, as an insurance -- just to understand -- I see where you're going. But think, as an insurance policy, go big. 
Many agree with you, Jerome Powell, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, by the way, Donald Trump, go big or just go home, when he was president. 
You don't think we're going too big here? 
  I don't think it's too big. 
I -- truth be told, I kind of like that we would tailor the money so that it would not go to high-income people, where I don't think that's who needs it. I think you want to steer the checks and the spending to where it's needed, to the people who've been hardest hit, and where it's going to prevent permanent damage. 
  Actually, that's a small part of it, though, right? 
  That's more expensive than you think. 
  That money to people is a small part, right? Yes. 
OK. All right. 
  That's more expensive than you think. 
  Austan Goolsbee, thank you very, very much. 
All right, we shall see. 
Brian Kemp is with us right now, the governor of Georgia. 
Governor, what do you think of some of the points that Austan pointed out, that there might be certain things in here you can argue over, but, in the scheme of things -- and this is echoing a line I heard from President Trump when he was urging Mitch McConnell to go big, and Mitch McConnell resisted. Now they're going big. 
What do you think? 
  Well, I think a lot of people, like you said, , they just don't know. 
I mean, there's a lot of Georgians. We have been sounding the alarm down here, and a lot of other governors have as well, about this package, that it's going to benefit New Yorkers and Californians inproportionately -- disproportionately more than hardworking Georgians. 
Unlike what President Trump did, where he treated all the states equitably, this bill treats the cities across the country equitably, but then punishes states that have low unemployment rates because they have been winning economically, and gives a win to states who are losing economically, which, to me, is ridiculous. 
It needs to be changed and be fair and equitable. I mean, you can certainly argue about the size of the package. I'm kind of in your camp. I think it needs to be more targeted. If you look at Georgia, to really contradict a lot of what your last guest said, we have had construction workers here working the whole time through the pandemic. 
I mean, building is booming in our state. Our forestry industry, our lumber mills are running wide open. So, a lot of those jobs that he's talking about, we never lost. Now, we do have sectors that are tied to industries like Delta Airlines, convention center business, service, and hospitality, because tourism is down in certain sectors, even though it's up in others. 
To me, it seems like you should be targeting and helping those Americans and those Georgians, vs. spending a lot of things on non-COVID relief. 
  Governor, I'm curious if you have any thoughts on what's happened in Texas right now. The state will almost fully reopen, I think totally, in fact, next week. Mississippi is looking to also ease restrictions significantly back to almost pre-pandemic days. 
What are you going to do in response, or continue doing what you're doing? 
  Well, the good news is, , we don't have to do a whole lot, because we never -- never closed most parts of our economy in Georgia. We're seeing that with our revenues. We never had a statewide mask mandate. We have trusted people to do the right thing, and to be part of the solution and not part of the problem. 
When you look at our manufacturing sector, I.T., fintech, health care, construction, as I mentioned, forestry, our ag economy is coming back -- we had a huge year at our seaport. You know, we have had all of that open the whole time, working with the private sector, plowing through, working with our public health people to figure out ways that we can work. Our restaurants have been back open. 
We got a few limitations on the small sector businesses. We're kind of looking at that now, as we get to reaching herd immunity, continue to get more vaccine supply. So, I'm glad the great state of Texas is joining us. 
  OK. 
  While I have you, Governor, there's been a back-and-forth, as you know, between Mitch McConnell and the president. I know you did not attend CPAC, but this notion the president said it was Mitch McConnell who lost the Senate. 
Mitch McConnell pointed out that a lot of the things that happened, particularly in Georgia, the president added to by talking about the reliability of the vote in Georgia. I have not had a chance, sir, to speak to you since all of that. 
What do you make of it? 
  Well, I think people got distracted in the run-off. I warned about that many times, . 
If you look at November , I mean, look, I was disappointed like everyone else that supported President Trump. I worked very hard for him. His policies, we're still benefiting from the day economically here. He did tremendous things with COVID to help our state, him and the vice president both. 
This vaccine, project Warp Speed -- or Operation Warp Speed is a direct result of that. I think the president should get a lot of credit for that. And he, quite honestly, has not. 
But I think, during the run-off, people were just distracted. A lot of Republicans stayed home. The Democrats were very motivated. And we lost the Senate. I think what we can learn from that, if you look back on November the rd, the things that we had been campaigning on -- all politics is local. 
Our General Assembly had very good nights in Georgia. We held strong majorities. And I think it just -- it's a good lesson. We have got to refocus. 
  All right. 
  We have got to focus on the ground game. 
Obviously, there's some issues with some of the elections procedures here. We have heard that from a lot of people that are upset. And we're working with the General Assembly to address that. 
  Real quickly, Donald Trump is the ' nominee for Republicans, would you support him? 
  Absolutely. I'm going to support the nominee. 
As I said, again, I worked very hard for the president. 
  All right. 
  And I think his ideas  will be part of our party for a long time in the future. 
And Republicans, we need to have a big tent. I mean, there's a lot of great ideas out there. We're not always going to get along. But I think the president deserves a lot of credit. And he's not going away. 
  Fair enough, Brian Kemp, Georgia governor. 
Very good seeing you, Governor. Thank you very, very much. 
  Thanks, . 
  All right. 
All right, another governor under a lot more pressure right now, New York's Governor Andrew Cuomo. 
He's not resigning. He is not leaving. He is apologizing a lot. But is he apologizing for something that's very different than the actual offense? 
After this. 
  I'm not going to resign. I work for the people of the state of New York. They elected me. 
  I apologized several days ago. I apologize today. I will apologize tomorrow. I will apologize the day after. 
  All right, apology not accepted. A number of women who have heard or at least accused the governor of going a lot more further in his remarks than just touching and kissing women are now saying that this is not going to settle any of this, as there's a move certainly in Albany, the state capital of New York, to go after the governor, already taking away his powers to handle the COVID- crisis, or moving quickly to do so, some calling for impeachment, if not outright resignation. 
So, did this settle anything today? 
Bryan Llenas with more from Brooklyn, New York. 
Hey, Bryan. 
  Hey, . 
Well, yes, New York Governor Andrew Cuomo having his first on-camera COVID-  briefing in nearly two weeks. He was contrite and, seemingly, he choked up as he addressed the sexual harassment allegations for the first time that have been lodged against him by three women. 
Listen. 
  I acted in a way that made people feel uncomfortable. It was unintentional. And I truly and deeply apologize for it. 
I feel awful about it. And, frankly, I am embarrassed by it. 
  Two of his former aides, now accusers, Charlotte Bennett and Lindsey Boylan, are bashing that press conference. 
Boylan accuses Cuomo of unwanted kissing and touching. And Cuomo said today  "How can New Yorkers trust you, New York Governor Cuomo, to lead our state if you don't know when you have been inappropriate with your own staff?" 
While Bennett, who accuses him of making inappropriate sexual remarks, released a statement through her attorney, reading in part -- quote -- "The governor's press conference was full of falsehoods and inaccurate information. And New Yorkers deserve better." 
 "The governor repeatedly said he had no idea he made anyone uncomfortable. My client, Charlotte Bennett, reported his sexually harassing behavior immediately to his chief of staff and chief counsel." 
And despite  state lawmakers now -- at least  -- calling on Cuomo to resign, today, the governor said he will not. And he asked New Yorkers to be patient. 
  I'm not going to resign. I ask the people of this state to wait for the facts from the attorney general's report before forming an opinion. 
  The attorney general, Letitia James, is overseeing an independent investigation. An independent law firm will then release the findings of that investigation in a public report. 
Interesting to note, , the -- under state law ,the governor will be receiving -- he is entitled to receive weekly updates on that investigation, and he will be signing checks paying for that investigation. 
Ultimately, it's also important to note here, interestingly, he started off the press conference saying that his lawyers told him not to speak today, and he did anyway -- . 
  Bryan Llenas, thank you very much. 
To Jim Trusty right now, the former DOJ prosecutor. 
What do you think, Jim? Where is this going? 
  Well, his lawyers are right that he needs to shut up. 
There is really nothing a prosecutor or a plaintiff's attorney likes more than a defendant who keeps running his mouth. And if you're looking at what he's doing, he's living in this bubble of his own creation, where all he's doing is thinking about the next step. 
But what he's doing is kind of slowing down time, obsessing and changing his story. It started off with, everyone should have their own opinions, as if this wasn't a matter of fact, but it was a matter of opinion. 
Then it became, well, people misinterpreted me. And now today, we have this kind of semi-tearful, well, at least I didn't touch anybody. I mean, I don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. Maybe he's going to show up with a Dr. Seuss book under his hand if somebody doesn't stop him. 
He needs to really step away from the microphone, let somebody else do the talking. He's basically already mostly created a Title VII hostile workplace scene by saying the things he's already said about the women that he mistreated under his under his rule at the statehouse. 
So, I think he's really making some fundamental mistakes. And it also just comes with the territory, . A lot of guys and women that have reached very high-powered positions, executive positions that are used to politics or a lot of wheeling and dealing, they think they can talk their way out of everything, and that, if they just have one more opportunity to go up to the microphone, they're finally going to clear it up. 
But, really, what they're doing is eroding their own credibility. So, he still has the specter of a potential false statement or obstruction probe from EDNY, from Eastern District of New York. He's got this Title VII hostile environment thing flaming up in front of him with his own help. 
And he's gotten an attorney general who I think will at least end up having a report that's politically hurtful. Even if it's not smoking gun proof beyond a reasonable doubt for like a criminal case, I can't imagine it's going to be entirely dismissive of these reports that continue to trickle in about how he treats various women. 
  You know, Jim, you said at the outset here, maybe talking too much, because what he did say was that he's a kisser and a hugger and he means no arm, his dad was the same way. 
But all three of these women who have made claims against him say it goes way beyond that to things he said and allegedly he has said, everything from strip poker -- we all know some of the charges that are made. 
Now, if it turns out that what they said was correct in regard to what he said, then he's laid a trap, inexplicably, for himself, hasn't he? 
  Yes, I mean, look, the words part of this -- and, remember, this is always an individualized kind of assessment, where you have to just listen and decide credibility of things that weren't immediately reported. 
That's an uphill battle for a plaintiff's attorney or a prosecutor. But, sometimes, the words have a ring of truth or ring of credibility to them. And that can be a real concern for this governor. 
I go back to one of the women who said he kept harping on her prior sexual assault. And, to me, that's just a -- just a horrific concept, that he's kind of hitting on this woman by whatever, and getting -- somehow trying to get her trust or trying to get her talking about something that makes her vulnerable. 
I mean, there's really no good explanation for an employer delving into that kind of detail with this woman. So he is definitely hurting himself on the civil side. The criminal side is not generally going to be taking into account for kind of creepiness, for bad phrasing or for words. It really is going to rely on physical contact. 
And that's got to be provable and within a statute of limitations. So I'm not really holding my breath for a criminal case to come out of the mistreatment of these women. 
But, again, the political damage, his moral standing, and civil liability are all certainly on the hook. 
  What's the bigger threat, quickly, the nursing home investigation or looking into these three women's allegations? 
  Well, politically, it seems like it's the women, which is fine, although it's kind of an ironic ending, that what got started here in this country was focusing on him for the nursing home deaths, really tragic, horrific consequences. 
So it's kind of a bitter pill that that might not be what drives him out of office at some point. But I think he still has liability for the process, for deceiving federal prosecutors. That's his biggest concern in terms of any sort of criminal liability, and I'm not sure where that's going to go. 
  All right, Jim Trusty, thank you very much, as always. 
Just a reminder, we put out calls to the governor. They're not returned, but he is always welcome to come on and talk about this. 
In the meantime, following the first lady and education secretary of the United States, touring schools, letting teachers know that they're important, letting students know that they're important, but who's more important? 
Why some are saying the message is, teachers are, and why the president of the United States and efforts on the vaccine front could be bearing that out. 
  All right, the congressman who's very worried, more like very upset, about what Joe Biden could be doing at the border. 
Here's the thing, though. He's not a Republican. He's a Democrat. And he's from Texas. 
  All right, the first lady, Jill Biden, and the education secretary of the United States looking at a reopened school in Waterford, Pennsylvania. 
The first lady in particular has been very focused on getting schools reopened, says her husband is as well. 
Kaylee McGhee joins us right now from The Washington Examiner. 
We do get two different vibes on this, though, Kaylee, since, at this point, much hinges on teachers, who have been arguing, will we feel safe to go back? Hence, the president's push to get them the vaccine, maybe move them to the front line. He's not saying that, but maybe get them sooner, rather than later, vaccinated to expedite that. 
What -- your thoughts? 
  Well, this is a direct gift to the teachers unions, which is kind of unnecessary, because in many parts of the country, teachers are already eligible for the vaccine, and many of them have already been vaccinated, and they're still not going back to school. 
So the point is not that teachers need to be vaccinated. Of course, they should, because they should be considered essential workers. But they should only be prioritized if they're actually going to go back, do their jobs, return to the classroom, and start educating students in person again. 
  So, where does this go? Even if you're, with a wink and a nod, saying, all right, teachers are essential personnel, they should be included in that group, I know, in the case of New Jersey, they're not putting them in the front of the line. They will just have to follow the regular order. 
But it's different strokes for different folks in different states. I get that. So, what is our policy on this? And what does the -- let's say, more to the point, teachers unions, what do they want? 
  The teachers unions want whatever the teachers unions want. They are not willing to do what Biden says, what the Democratic Party says, what any of the Democratic-led city officials say. 
They are completely on their own schedule. And they have made it very clear that they do not want to go back to in person instruction until next year, maybe , maybe . At this point, who knows? 
They have kept shifting the goalposts so far back that no one can get a good read on this situation. And, quite frankly, the Democrats are letting them do it. Biden has refused to come out against the teachers unions at this point, even though they have made it clear they don't care what he says. 
And now he's continuing to try to bribe them with prioritizing them for vaccines, giving them additional school funding, even though they haven't even spent all the school funding they received from the last coronavirus relief package. It's just... 
  Well, not just a little -- not just a little school funding, I mean,  -- in this stimulus package, $ billion for elementary and secondary schools. Most of that is going to be spent next year. 
So, leaving aside just the sheer dollar figure, the fact that so much of it is going to spend next year makes me think, are we going to delay another school year as well? 
  Well, honestly, parents should expect that at this point. 
There is no reason to expect that your students are going back to school, depending on which city you live in. But in areas like Los Angeles even around here, in Washington, D.C., there is very little reason to expect that your students are going back to school anytime soon, because these city officials are allowing the teachers unions to dictate their own policies. 
And it's clearly political. These teachers unions do not care about the education of your students. They care about their political agenda, and they care about squeezing out as much as they can from the cities. I mean, over in Los Angeles, you had basically a list of demands delivered to city officials. 
And on that list was, you need to provide universal health care not just for teachers, but for every citizen in Los Angeles. You need to support Medicare for all. You need to support all of these different things that have nothing to do with K- education. And that's what parents need to understand moving forward. 
  All right. All right. 
For their part, teachers unions have told us, this is all about keeping the kids safe as well, have a safe environment. We reach out to various union members, don't hear back. 
Kaylee McGhee, Washington Examiner, thank you very, very much. 
In the meantime here, we told you a little bit about everything going on, on the border, and now possible migrants who get into the country, a lot of them saddled with COVID-, not a good combination of events. 
It's not just Republicans concerned about this. Democratic Congressman Henry Cuellar is as well. We go to Texas -- after this. 
  All right, it's all about the Internet. 
The latest confirmation of that, Disney now announcing it's going to be closing  percent of its Disney Stores in part of a shift to focus on e- commerce. A number of big retailers have been sort of readjusting their priorities, focusing more on their e-commerce business, ordering things online, as is Amazon and Walmart and Target, Disney a big name in that front, now saying that one out of five of its Disney Stores, at least  of them, will be shuttered in this process. 
We will keep you posted on new developments. 
Also keeping you posted, in the meantime, what's happening at our border. 
Showing you right now Eagle Pass, Texas. This is a live drone shot there that gives you an idea of some of the ability that is there to be had for anyone who wants to get over into the United States, and fairly easily. 
Henry Cuellar joins us right now, the Democratic Texas congressman, on these latest developments that include  migrants released into Texas that had tested positive for COVID-. 
Congressman, it comes in waves. These are some pretty scary waves. What do you make of this? 
  You know, you're absolutely right. I think you got it on the spot. They do come in waves. 
In , May of , we had a high mark of  people that were detained in that one month. That was a crisis under President Trump. It went down. And then it started coming up again about a year ago. So, like you said, they do come in waves. 
The only thing is, this first three months, four months of the new fiscal year have had higher numbers than we have seen in the past. And that concerns me that we might surpass the numbers of a high  per month that we had under President Trump in May of . 
  Would you urge President Biden to slow down? 
  Yes, absolutely. 
In fact, I have told the folks that I have talked to at the White House, let's be cautious. In my opinion, what the White House needs to do is, they cannot only listen to the immigration activists, advocates. They also need to listen to the communities on the border that I represent, the mayors, the judges, the NGOs down there. 
And with that, he can come up with a balanced approach. Otherwise, who's carrying the burden of all this, everything we're seeing down there at the border? It's not the people who live , miles away. Those are the people that live in my community right at the -- at the border. 
  You know, speaking of your fine state, Congressman, Governor Abbott has just essentially taken away, and will by next week at this time, all restrictions, COVID-related restrictions, including the mask mandate for all of Texas. 
 "The last thing we need is Neanderthal thinking that, in the meantime, everything is fine. Take off these masks. Forget it." 
What did you think of the Neanderthal thinking remark, as a Texan and for the people you represent? 
  Well, I mean, I respectfully disagree with our governor, respectfully disagree with the governor. 
We have seen our numbers go down for the first time in a while. And I think we need to carry on the masks. We can open up for business, which I want to see. But I think we need to... 
  But is that Neanderthal thinking? Do you think the president chose the right term there to refer to that as Neanderthal? 
  Well, I gave you my answer. 
I respectfully disagree with the governor. 
  Not with the president? 
  Again, the president is right on keeping the masks, but I would have used very different terms. 
  All right, Congressman, thank you very, very much. 
Congressman Henry Cuellar of Texas. 
We have a lot more coming up, including this idea of inheriting a mess. Is it me, or every president, when he comes into office, immediately starts blaming the mess he inherited? But it was something Joe Biden said yesterday about a very different mess that doesn't appear to be that much of a mess. 
The mess over, well, masses -- after this. 
  We inherited a financial crisis unlike any that we have seen in our time. 
  I inherited a mess. It's a mess at home and abroad. 
  The prior administration had contracted for not nearly enough vaccine to cover adults in America. We're making progress from the mess we inherited. 
  All right, we get kind of used to this every four years, where an incoming president sort of says he got a mess from his predecessor, in the case of Barack Obama and the financial meltdown, the worse that any president has had to -- dealt with, forgetting maybe that FDR and the Great Depression was a tad bit more difficult, or Donald Trump when he came into office after Barack Obama had inherited a mess, when, in fact, we were well off our meltdown lows and the markets and the economy were doing pretty well. 
Or now this president referring to the mess he inherited on the vaccine front, when, in fact, Operation Warp Speed has made available not one, not two, but three vaccines that, because of Operation Warp Speed, now means that, well, every American adult will be free to get such a vaccine by the end of May. 
So, the politics notwithstanding, the reality of looking at this latest criticism of the prior administration and whether that was a mess, isolated to just this issue of vaccine. I don't want you to weigh in on what you think of a president or not, left to right. 
I think the good doctor that who joins me now could care less on that front. 
His name is Dr. Bob Lahita at the St. Joseph University Hospital, chairman of medicine. 
And, Doctor, what I remember about you when we were talking about Operation Warp Speed back in the day is that... 
  Yes. 
  ... it was an ambitious undertaking, but you were confident it could deliver the goods on the vaccines. You had hoped that that generous timeline would be realized. It was realized in triplicate, wasn't it? 
  It was unbelievable, . 
I respect all of our presidents. But I have to say we have to give credit where credit is due. And to have a vaccine developed in  months, instead of  years, is an absolute miracle. And, I mean, from a medical standpoint, if anything about scientific development, that is amazing. 
Now, I have to give credit to President Biden as well for enhancing the distribution and continuing to mitigate these infections and realize that these infections are still very dangerous. It is still too hot out there to take our masks off and not wash our hands and not social distance. So, I give credit to both of these guys. 
And I know that, when they inherit the Oval Office, they say, well, the previous guy left me a big mess. Well, nobody expected a pandemic. And I think, under the circumstances, both of them are doing magnificent jobs -- . 
  Well-played. You could also go and be a secretary of state, Doctor. 
  Touche to you. 
This Operation Warp Speed and what it did, it is amazing here, but I find that, when I remember the race and it was going on, and a lot of people were saying, all right, the president was just teasing us -- that is, Donald Trump -- that it couldn't be done. 
The fact that it was done and that it was done so quickly and so many vaccines are now getting out, are you confident that that end-of-May goal that every American adult will have access or will have had access will be reached? 
  I do -- I am extremely confident. 
I was surprised when we had the vaccine by mid-December for tmas. But I am also confident that we are all going to have the opportunity, not that anybody is -- not that everybody is going to afford themselves of the vaccine. 
I'm hearing rumblings out there of something like  to  percent of people don't want to have the vaccine. And I think that's crazy. But, frankly, I think it'll be available to all of those who wanted by May, the end of May, and we will hopefully achieve herd immunity soon thereafter. 
So, , I think this is extremely promising. And as I said before to you, I think we have a big light at the end of the tunnel now. 
  Thank you, Doctor, very much, or should I say Secretary of State Bob Lahita? 
  But, all kidding aside, Doctor, thank you very much. 
  You're a fair and very balanced shooter when it comes to this. 
When we come back, the confidence in states now to open up a lot sooner than expected. You heard about Texas. Have you heard about what's going on in Mississippi? The state's senator after this. 
  Message to Texas and Mississippi? Texas and Mississippi? 
  I think it's a big mistake. 
Look, I hope everybody has realized by now these masks make a difference. We are on the cusp of being able to fundamentally change the nature of this disease. 
And the last thing, the last thing we need is Neanderthal thinking that, in the meantime, everything's fine, take off your mask, forget it. 
  All right, the president talking about the Neanderthal thinking behind the Mississippi governor and the Texas governor easing, dramatically, restrictions, to the point in Texas where they won't pretty much have any come next week at this time. 
Roger Wicker is the Republican Mississippi senator. 
Senator, what did you think of what the president had to say about what your governor wants to do, ease restrictions to the point that we're almost back to pre-pandemic levels? 
  Well, I'm perfectly all right with what the governor of Mississippi has done. 
He's left it up to local governments. And that's a conservative principle. Take it away from the folks at the capital city and leave it up to individuals, cities and locations. So, I'm perfectly fine with that. 
I'm also -- I understand Joe Biden. He likes the one-liner, the -- he likes to pop off at the mouth. 
I'm a lot more concerned with this $. trillion, this massive mistake he's about to make for the economy. And so I'm actually focusing on that and trying to make the case that this is the wrong thing to do, with an expanding economy, and with the disease ending, and herd immunity coming midyear. 
That's more my beef with Joe Biden. 
  In other words, that almost $ trillion is too much. There is a lot of non-COVID relief in that. You're right. 
  Absolutely, like a -- like... 
  It looks to me -- and you can update me, Senator -- that not a single Republican senator, including yourself, will vote for this, right? So it's going to go along party lines, right? 
  Not only that, but we're going to fight it and try to point out that, for one thing, we have a trillion dollars left over from the five bipartisan bills we passed last year. 
Let's get that spent and allocated. But, also, more than half of this money that he proposes to spend this week will not even be spent until the year . It's a massive waste. It's going to overheat the economy. Interest rates are going to skyrocket. 
And Larry Summers was an adviser to two Democratic presidents. He points out this is going to overheat the economy. It's absolutely the worst thing to do. And we're going to spend the next two days and nights, I guess, trying to point out to people who are willing to tune in and listen that this is -- this is not only something that's not going to help COVID, but it is going to hurt the economy, hurt American people, and pick favorites among families. 
  All right, Senator Roger Wicker, thank you very, very much. 
The Mississippi senator responding to these latest developments, not only easing restrictions dramatically in the state of Mississippi, leaving it up to people to respond to that, even though a number of big retailers and the like have already indicated they're going to require masks in stores in both states just to be safe. 
That will do it here. 
Senate minority leader slams Democrat legislation in exclusive interview on 'The Story' This is a rush transcript from "The Story with Martha MacCallum," March , . This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated  Thank you, John and Sandra. I'm Martha MacCallum, live in New York. And breaking right now, Governor Cuomo, making his first public statement a short time ago directly addressing the sexual harassment claims against him. Watch this. 
 And I truly and deeply apologize for it. I feel awful about it. And frankly, I am embarrassed by it. 
 We're going to play more of that shortly and we'll bring in Andy McCarthy to analyze the legal perspective of exactly the words that were used by Governor Cuomo and whether or not he will be pushed to resign. But first, right now on Capitol Hill, a $. trillion bill which would bring total COVID relief to $ trillion that dwarfs the U.S. response to the  financial crash. And the depression is now under consideration in a - split Senate. Where the minority leader Mitch McConnell has vowed that he will fight this bill in every way. He joins me in a moment exclusively to talk more about that. This bill gets to the Senate just as COVID relief appears to be emerging on its own. States are beginning to shed mask mandates and reopen at a  percent capacity. You've got stadiums that are opening for spring sports, restrictions coming down even in places like Michigan, and Pennsylvania, and New Jersey. And the Biden administration claims there's going to be enough vaccine for all adults in the country within  days. These are game-changing dynamics that we're watching happen right now. And here's one more element to think about today as this enormous bill is discussed. A new report from Bloomberg News says that during the lockdowns, Americans saved -- because they weren't going out, they weren't doing things -- $. trillion. Think about that pent-up money. And what is likely to happen when it starts to hit the economy in a very big way in the coming months. So, before we get to leader McConnell, a quick update on the bill from our congressional correspondent Jacqui Heinrich. Hi Jacqui.  Good afternoon, Martha. Senate Republicans plan to really draw out the marathon voting process with amendment after amendment, targeting things like billions, supporting climate change, and $ billion for the V.A. when there's already $ billion sitting leftover from the CARES Act.  In the last hour, a group of Republican senators railed against $ billion in unrestricted aid to state and local governments, which they see as a reward for states with the strictest lockdowns now suffering financially. They really take issue with the distribution formula which would tie a portion of those funds to unemployment rates. In their view, punishing states that reopened and rewarding those that stayed shut down. Now, the Biden administration sees that money as crucial to continuing local services after the pandemic gutted revenues. But Republicans have clapped back with the Wall Street Journal report, stating  states are actually running at a budget surplus. 
 Just because the numbers are not as bad as they were, doesn't mean we don't need a continued strong push to get us out of this ditch and go upward and forward. 
 Now, Republicans claimed wins with infrastructure projects and the minimum wage hike being dropped. But overall, they still don't support or plan to support this bill. Martha.  Jacqui, thank you very much. Joining me now, Senate minority leader Mitch McConnell. Senator, great to have you with us today. Thank you very much.  Hi, Martha.  Hi, there. In terms of this bill, you said the other day that you would want to sort of fight this in every way possible. - split, some concessions just made on some of the thresholds. Do you think you're going to be able to peel off any Democrat senators in this bill?  Well, we don't know yet. But it's wildly out of proportion. As your introduction pointed out, wildly out of proportion to where the country stands today. This $. trillion bill is the same size as the bill we passed last April, right in the middle of the pandemic. This is not the same country we had a year ago. Only nine percent of this $. trillion is related to health care and less than one percent of this . trillion bill is related to vaccines. It is a wildly out of proportion response to where the country is at the moment. The vaccines are going out, the economies are opening up. As you just pointed out, a lot of money that was sitting on the sidelines for obvious reasons over the last year is about to be -- to begin to be spent. We think, having a death the size of our economy for the first time since World War II already doesn't argue for adding $ trillion more when the country is clearly on the way back.  I mean, it's a great point. I heard Jim Baker talking about it the other night. He spoke with Bret and said -- and exactly what you just said, having a debt that is the size of the economy -- think about that everybody at home, is a pretty tremendous burden to bear. That being said, just the pure vote politics of this. Do you believe right now as you try -- as you speak today that there's any chance that perhaps Joe Manchin or perhaps Kyrsten Sinema, senators from West Virginia and Arizona might vote no on this bill?  Well, I doubt it. In the end, there is a chance, however, that they may join us and slimming it down some. Probably nowhere and near as much of a slim down as the situation argues for. But any amount we can reduce the size of this is a good thing for the -- for the country and I think there's at least a chance that one or two Democrats could join all of us and spend a little bit less. 
 Have you spoken with any of them?  It's still going to be -- it's still going to be wildly out of proportion to what the country needs right now.  Sorry to interrupt. Have you spoken with either of those senators or anybody that you think might be on the fence today?  Yes, there's all kinds of conversations going on. The Democrat bill keeps changing, they keep dropping things that are toxic, and I think the reason for that is there's internal pressure among Senate Democrats to make it a little less bad. But at the end of the day, my guess is they all fall in line and it will -- it will pass with every single Democrat for it and every single Republican .  Do you think that the checks that are going out, you know, there's some unemployment benefits -- additional benefits that would run out in March. Do you believe that these checks prevent some people from wanting to work, do you believe that?  vaccines, kids in school. And we need to make sure that people are being encouraged to go back to school not -- 
 Yes.  Not staying at home. I mean, there's no science-based reason for kids to be stuck at home now. And I think the administration ought to be advocating even though those are local decisions. Ought to be advocating getting these kids back in school because the science backs that up.  So, you know, you've known Joe Biden a long time. Why do you think he doesn't do that? You know, if he were to come out and say look, this -- you know, I'm the president of the United States, as you say, these are state decisions, but I believe that everybody -- what if he pushed back against the teachers union politically? How -- you know, how big of a -- how much of a burden would that be on him? Or do you think he might -- he might score well with it actually with the American people?  Well, this is the parents versus the teachers union.  Yes.  And I think the administration be a lot smarter rather than trying to sort of payback their teachers' union allies to side with the parents of America, who know their kids need to be back in school. We know that there's been a lot of damage done to the kids over the last year by being stuck at home. They need to be with other children at their age, they need to be learning the social skills that come along with being back in school. And there's no science-based reason for keeping these kids locked up at home any longer. And I think the sooner the administration faces that, stands up to the teachers union, and says get those kids back in school, the more likely school boards all across America are going to make that decision.  Yes. It could be a great political moment for him as well. On that same line, are you surprised that President Joe Biden is allowing what's happening at the border right now to happen? We know that in Brownsville, Texas there's  migrants who came through who are COVID positive, who were -- you know, sort of sent on their way on the process. That wouldn't happen -- you know, if that happens here where I work -- you know, you're home for  days, if you -- if you test positive, or  days, or whatever the doctor prescribes. Why is it that we have a different policy for people coming across the border?  Beats me, Secretary Mayorkas, the head of the Homeland Security says there's no crisis at the border. Well, that's absolutely incorrect. And the crisis was created by the administration sending a message to desperate people who want to come here that just hang on, you'll get in sooner or later. And, of course, the Mexican government, then, will become less cooperative. One thing the previous administration did an excellent job of by any objective standard was border security. And all of that is being undone very quickly in this new administration. They own this crisis at the border, they created it, and they could stop it if they chose to.  Yes. With regard to the prior administration, you were on last Friday talking to Bret, and you said absolutely that you would back President Trump -- the former president if indeed he became the nominee of your party. And everyone remembers the very strong statement that you made on the floor with regard to the January th riots at the Capitol, you were very strong in your words against the president. At this point, do you have any regrets about the statement that you made on the floor, would you take back any of that today?  Well, look, I think the actions of the new democratic administration are unifying the Republican Party. We've had some internal back and forth that has been widely covered. But nothing has unified the Republican Party in both the House and the Senate faster than reacting to this new left-wing administration. So, we're looking forward, we're not going to look backward. We're looking forward dealing with the problems America has today, not the problems it had yesterday. And as I said, I have sensed in our conference, and I think in the House Republican Conference as well, a new sense of unity pulling together to oppose this left-wing administration.  All right. Well, shortly after you said that, the president spoke at CPAC and he went after -- he named  individuals. He spared you in that -- in that part of -- and he mentioned you in another part. What did you think of that when you heard him at CPAC naming all of those who voted to impeach him and saying, basically, we need to get rid of all these Republicans?  Well, I didn't -- I didn't watch it. But I think the important thing now the American people expect from us is to stand up to this left- wing administration that's taken the country in the wrong direction. We're dealing with the present and the future not looking back to the past.  So, you don't want to comment on any of that, and you know, I understand what you're saying that you want to move forward. He also went after the Supreme Court and that has been, you know, a point that was of great pride for you in terms of accomplishment with the Supreme Court justices. Here is what he said about the Supreme Court. 
 We had almost  states go into the Supreme Court so that we didn't have a standing problem, they rejected it. They rejected it. They should be ashamed of themselves for what they've done to our country. They didn't have the guts or the courage to make the right decision. 
 Senator McConnell, what do you say about that statement?  Well, I can only speak for myself. The Supreme Court is the most respected institution in the country with the exception of the military. When they speak, it's the last word and it's been my practice over the years not to attack the Supreme Court for decisions that I don't like.  So, you think the president was wrong to say that?  It's been my practice over the years not to attack the Supreme Court when they make a decision that I don't like.  All right. Just one last question. Senator Murkowski is the only one on that list who's actually up for re-election in her next Senate race. And you said that you will stand by her. Do you think you may find yourself in a position where you are backing her and the former president is backing another candidate against her? And will you stand by her if that happens?  Yes, absolutely we support Senator Murkowski. We support all of our Republican incumbents. She's in very strong shape in her home state of Alaska. There's nobody going to come close to beating Lisa Murkowski when she runs for re-election next year.  Senator McConnell, minority leader of the United States Senate. Thank you very much, sir. Always good to have you with us.  Thank you. Thanks, Martha.  So, next, we're going to go live to the border which we were just discussing. Where in the last  hours alone, agents have uncovered and shut down three houses that were used as hubs for human smuggling. A look at the dire situation on the ground in Texas next. 
 To the growing crisis at our southern border today, as the facilities there are bracing for an estimated , migrant children this year, and that's according to an Axios report that came out yesterday. Local residents are asking why they have to quarantine if they have COVID, but the growing number of COVID-positive migrants are released into the population. Correspondent Casey Stegall is live at the border in Eagle Pass, Texas. Hi, Casey.  Hi, Martha. Good to see you. This is, in fact, one of the busiest sectors for U.S. border patrol in all of South Texas in terms of overall apprehensions along the southern border.  And great perspective now, live pictures coming in from the Fox News drone flying out here with us at the border. But it shows the Rio Grande River. This is important because that is the dividing line between Mexico and the United States. Recently, the United States began letting migrants in who had been waiting in Mexico for their court cases. And now letting them wait here at home. Meantime, the city of Brownsville, Texas is now saying that some six percent or so of the migrant screened at one of the main bus stations tested positive for COVID, which equals about  total people. What's more, the city does not have the authority to keep them from traveling. 
 While their cases are being adjudicated, testing for COVID- is done at the state and local level. Our guidance regardless of status is testing positive for COVID- or experiencing COVID-like symptoms is to isolate, continue to social distance, wear a mask. 
 Now, here in Eagle Pass and elsewhere, agents say that they're seeing a growing number of migrants trying to cross illegally, like this woman we just saw before our own eyes at our live shot position a couple of hours ago, Martha, in this one sector apprehension specifically with kids are up  percent this year compared to last.  Casey, thank you very much. Let's bring in "FOX AND FRIENDS WEEKEND" co-host Will Cain, for Wednesdays with Will on THE STORY. Hi, Will. You know, I mean, it -- this story, it's so obvious that when you change the rules and you change the language around what's allowed, you are going to encourage a lot more of these families to say, you know, let's go for it. Let's move north.  You know, Martha, but the concept of incentive has eluded so many of those on the left. You're exactly right, if you put policies in place, better yet, if you use rhetoric on the campaign trail that seems to suggest you're opening the door or will take a light touch. When it comes to illegal immigration, you are inviting people to immigrate illegally. And now, as we just heard from Casey, you're hearing numbers like a six percent positivity rate at least in that pool of illegal immigrants. Six percent? That would shut down New York City. 
 Yes, it did.  I mean, Mayor Bill de Blasio would counsel -- he would cancel all public schools if we had a six percent positivity rate. But meanwhile, illegal immigrants are free to enter the United States.  Yes, I mean, these are just common-sense conclusions that you can draw and especially when you apply them the way that they've been applied in cities and towns all across the country in terms of what you do when you have that kind of positivity rate. It just makes absolutely no sense. Here is Dan Crenshaw earlier today on "FOX AND FRIENDS". Watch this. 
 Here is what's even most infuriating about the COVID positive cases that you just mentioned, U.S. citizens have to get a negative test before coming in back, back into our country.  Correct.  This administration is prioritizing illegal immigrants over U.S. citizens. 
 You know, I want to leave that there and I want to talk to you about Texas real quickly. The CDC director has basically lashed out at Texas for opening  percent, Mississippi is doing the same thing. Here is Joe Biden just moments ago, the president of the United States on Texas reopening too soon. Watch. 
 I think it's a big mistake. Look, I hope everybody's realized by now, these masks make a difference. And the last thing, the last thing we need is Neanderthal thinking that, in the meantime, everything is fine, take off your mask. Forget it, it still matters. 
 Neanderthal thinking happening in Texas apparently well.  But you know what, Martha, we don't have to leave behind the illegal immigration story. In fact, we should put them side by side. While Joe Biden opens up Texas's borders to illegal immigrants, he is upset that the governor of Texas has opened up the economy and society of Texas for Texans. Bottom line, it was about time. It's past time that Texas has opened up, that every state has opened up, Martha. We're close to  percent -- almost  percent in the coming month for seniors being vaccinated. Never ever, ever forget what we were told the original goal was, it was to bend the curve. We have bent the curve. Open our society, open our schools, open up Texas, open up the United States.  I think that when all of this is over, there's going to be a lot of studies that look like what we saw between Florida and California. Two diametrically opposed ways of approaching this had the same -- roughly the same death rate in both places. And I think that's something -- 
 And then we'll have to answer, Martha, really quickly. 
 And -- so sure.  And then we'll have to answer who was the Neanderthal.  Yes, yes, exactly. Well, thank you very much. Great to see you.  You bet.  So, Governor Andrew Cuomo getting choked up and saying that he is sorry. But he says he will not resign. Ahead, why a New York State law - - why a New York State law, the governor signed a couple of years ago could seal his fate. Former federal prosecutor Andy McCarthy next. 
 Some politicians will always play politics, right? That's the nature of the beast. I don't think today is a day for politics. I wasn't elected by politicians, I was elected by the people of the State of New York. I'm not going to resign. 
 So, there you have it. He says he's sorry, but New York Governor Andrew Cuomo says he will not step down over the sexual harassment accusations. The governor speaking for the first time since three women made accusations against him. A former aide says that he gave her an unwanted kiss and asked her to play strict poker. Cuomo says that he may have been, "too playful". But today, he said very clearly, he never -- he believes he never touched anyone inappropriately. He's also trying to manage fallout over how the state handled nursing homes during the pandemic that has gotten somewhat lost in this, but that is a very big issue for him as well. The scandal's raising questions about whether or not he can still govern effectively at this point. Let's bring in former federal prosecutor Andy McCarthy, also contributing editor with -- to the National Review, and a Fox News contributor. Andy, good to have you here today.  Thanks, Martha.  So, at one point he said, you know, that his attorneys didn't want him to make a statement, but that he felt that he must. So, as an attorney, what did you make of this statement, and would there anything in there that you think is problematic for him?  Well, I -- it's always the case that the lawyer would prefer for you not to say anything publicly. And it's always the case for the political official that you can't worry about your civil or criminal liability if you want to maintain your political connection with your constituents. So, that's a tension that exists in every state -- in every case. As far as what he said today, you know, I think it may help him politically because he did -- he obviously looked contrite, he said he was sorry. He said he wasn't putting conditions on the sorry, there's no but here, I'm sorry. I just don't think his story is very credible. I don't think this is like a very abstruse technical legal situation. This is a situation where he says that he didn't realize that the things that he was saying to people put them in an uncomfortable position. I think any lawyer who was cross-examining them would probably take the statements that the women who've come forward have reported that he made and take them one by one and ask them. You didn't realize that, that would make somebody uncomfortable?  Yes.  You know, it is a reasonable person test. That's what the cases all say, the statute says. It's what would make a reasonable person think that they were in a hostile work environment. So, you know, this idea that there's this whole cultural change in the society that's gone on, and he kind of missed it because he's around the same age I am. And the more age had changed, and I guess he didn't get the memo or whatever, but can it really be that everybody's reasonable, except him? You know, I think that's a though position to begin.  Good question. And with each of these women, they have some form of documentation, text messages that they sent, or emails that they sent, you know, explaining to family, friends, look, this weird thing happened at work today, you know, something along those lines, which I think substantiates their case a bit just in terms of the basics of what happened or didn't happen. Here's what he says about the kissing. Watch this. 
 You can go find hundreds of pictures of me kissing people, men, women, it is my usual and customary way of greeting, you know that because you've watched me for, let's just say more years than we care to remember. By the way, it was my father's way of greeting people. You're the governor of the state. You want people to feel comfortable. 
 So in this, he's trying to knock down that photo image that was on the cover of The New York Post of him, you know, holding the face of a young woman who says, later on, that she felt very uncomfortable that he tried to kiss her. And then, she thought that was weird and uncomfortable. Your thoughts on that part, Andy.  Well, good luck with that. You know, if you're doing something that you're not supposed to do, it's really not a very compelling defense to say but I do it all the time. And I do it at high noon with everybody watching, you know, that actually, in a common sense way, it makes things worse instead of better. And, you know, the other thing he has that's problematic, Martha, is that you don't have to engage in physical activity in order to create a hostile work environment under the law. So, for example, the Charlotte Bennett allegation, I think is very, very problematic for him because he engages in this sort of lewd banter. She's disturbed enough by it that she instantly complains. And the next thing they transfer her not only to a different job but to another part of the Capitol. Now, there's no allegation. She doesn't make an allegation there of physical touching. But I think under the statue he himself signed, which changed the law as of about a year before that happened, that's a big problem for him.  Yes. And that's unfortunate for him. Andy, thank you very much, great to have you here.  Thanks, Martha.  You bet. So back in the fall, then President Trump faced some skepticism when he said that we should have enough vaccine for every American. He said, by spring. In fact, he said by April. Now, President Biden is predicting the same thing and getting a very different reaction. Dr. Siegel on the vaccine and the apparent double standard there, coming up next. 
 I'm pleased to announce today as a consequence of the stepped up process that I've ordered and just outlined, this country will have enough vaccine supply, I'll say it again, for every adult in America by the end of May. 
 Big optimistic announcement from President Biden, he says that the US expects to have enough vaccine for every American adult by the end of May. That's two months earlier than his administration had originally predicted. The news met with very little pushback on like when former President Trump predicted back in September, that he thought that that could be accomplished roughly in April. 
 We will have manufactured at least  million vaccine doses before the end of the year, and likely much more than that. Hundreds of millions of doses will be available every month, and we expect to have enough vaccines for every American by April. 
 So, joining me now Fox News Medical Contributor, Dr. Marc Siegel. Dr. Marc, good to see you as always. So, what do you make of this appearing, the seeming double standard here and the response to both of these productions?  Martha, I don't I really think we could have reached a much higher level here. You realize that the administration could actually say, hey, thanks to the Trump administration, we have these vaccines. Hey, we didn't have them a year ago. Hey, by the way, here's the real scientific truth about this, Martha, you know what, they couldn't be manufactured at the rate of speed we needed because the manufacturers themselves, Pfizer, Moderna, BioNTech, they actually have to do a very fragile process to make these vaccines. Now, they've got the hang of it. Now they're saying that they're going to have  million doses by May, each of them, that's as expected. And now J&J is approved, how can that be laid on the hands of the Trump administration when actually the financial deals were made with these manufacturers back in the Trump administration? Now it's coming to fruition. You should be saying, this is one thing they got right.  Exactly. You know, I mean, I kind of hate these comparisons, but it just stares you right in the face because the treatment is so different in terms of the reaction for both people. It's almost as if, you know, for large chunk of people, there's nothing that the Trump administration did that could ever be seen it in a positive light. The Biden administration has refuses to ever, you know, say that there could be anything in a positive light. And I think that the one person who could truly defuse that and could sort of start to unify the country would be President Biden. You know, if he said, look, you know what, here's the deal. We recognize that this project was revolutionary. That it got, you know, the beginning part of the process done in record time. And I think people would just be relieved across the nation to hear someone say, the President say, you know, OK, so we accept that. Hiccups, just as you very seen and common sense, we just said there were hiccups, you know, with manufacturing. But here we are, right, with both of these presidents getting us to about the same point in the spring of . And overall, that is great news. Right, Marc?  Listen, Martha, we all sat there and heard the plan. We heard Operation Warp Speed involving the military. We heard Gus Perna, General Gus Perna get on TV about this. We heard Admiral Giroir. We just heard him again recently. I mean, there was a lot of working that McKesson was involved, CDC was involved. I know from my own talks with HHS that they were talking to all of the states every day, and what slowed it down at the beginning was not all the states were in lockstep. It didn't have to do with there being no plan. And, by the way, at the time that they left office, a million doses a day were already being administered. Hooray that it's now . million, hooray  Right, exactly. I mean, of course, there's going to be hiccups and problems along the way, how could there not be Texas. The CDC and Joe Biden just said it was Neanderthal thinking, the President said, to reopen the state of Texas. Quick comment on that before I let you go, Marc.  I think that you have to reopen the state of Texas. I think that strangling the economies leads to depression, leads to joblessness, leads to mental health issues, suicide. It leads to plenty of physical problems when you can't get the health screenings you need. All of that is true. And I think that he's making the right step to open the state of Texas. And I think he's going county by county with a mask. He's not saying no mask. So I disagree with that as well.  Yes. I could say it's Neanderthal to only look at one aspect of the equation, because there's a lot to balance here between the economy and people's mental health and all of that. It's a complex situation for modern minds to be sure. Marc, thank you very much. Good to see you. Thanks for coming by.  Thank you, Martha.  You bet.  Good to see you. Thank you.  So breaking news, and Capitol Hill on high alert right now. Police confirming that they know of a possible plot to attack the Capitol hours from now, sometime tomorrow, and that as we hear more horror stories of the poor treatment that the National Guard troops are getting, who are still there protecting DC, behind tons of fences and barbed wire. What they say they were given to eat that reportedly left dozens of them sick. 
 So once again, Capitol Police warning of a possible plot to breach the Capitol tomorrow. March th used to be Inauguration Day way back in history and there's a conspiracy theory floating around that tomorrow might be another opportunity to change the outcome of the November election. Capitol Police say that they have made significant security upgrades to protect Congress just in case. Meanwhile, some National Guard troops have become sick from the food that they are being given while they are on duty at the Capitol, which has gone on for a long time. Correspondent David Spunt has this for us live from Washington. Hi, David.  Hi, Martha. It's a tough story to hear. A spokesperson for the National Guard says  troops from the state of Michigan experienced some sort of gastrointestinal issue. The good news, those troops are OK right now. However, lawmakers in Michigan want some answers immediately. Right now, there are still about , National Guard troops in Washington, DC, around the Capitol protecting since what happened on January th. And according to the reports that some of the National Guard troops ate expired and other bad food served over the past several weeks, the Michigan congressional delegation wrote a letter to the head of the Guard which reads in part, these reports include meals being provided that are badly undercooked, raw, moldy and even filled with metal shavings. 
 It's outrageous. It's absolutely unacceptable. I certainly would like to see the per diem paid, so that our men and women who are serving here can get a decent meal and have that compensate. Right now, they're going out into the town and using their own money to get a decent meal and that's simply unacceptable. 
 However, the Guard is carrying out spot checks on the food, I'm told, to determine the cause of the gastro symptoms. In a statement to Fox News, the Guard says in part, since January th, there have been no National Guard members hospitalized because of the illness from the food out of the , who were deployed and , who remain. Approximately  have been treated for those gastrointestinal complaints.  Tough trip to Washington for those folks and I think a lot of people will be glad when things get a little bit back to normal there. David, thank you very much. So, one American contractor is dead after a rocket attack at al-Assad Airbase this morning in Iraq. The Pentagon says the contractor suffered a heart attack while sheltering during that attack. No US service members were killed or injured by the rockets. The attack comes only days after the United States responded to the latest provocation by Iran's proxies in the Middle East by conducting an airstrike on buildings used by Iranian-backed fighters in Syria. Trey Yingst reporting live in Tel Aviv, Israel today. Hi, Trey.  Martha, good afternoon. Early this morning,  rockets were fired at Ain al-Asad Airbase in Western Iraq that does house US troops. It was the first major attack by suspected Iranian-backed proxies since President Biden ordered airstrikes in Syria last week.  am local time. Now according to the Pentagon, one American civilian contractor died after suffering a heart attack during that rocket fire. A spokesperson for the US coalition told Fox News, the incident is currently under investigation. President Biden reacting today saying his administration is identifying who exactly is responsible, and then we'll make judgments. The same Iraqi base was targeted by Iran with  ballistic missiles back in January of  following the US drone strike that killed top Iranian General Qassem Soleimani. Martha.  Thank you very much, in Tel Aviv. So, let's bring in retired four-star General Jack Keane, Fox News Senior Strategic Analyst and former Vice Chief of Staff for the Army. General, good to have you with us. So, what's your assessment of the dynamic that's going on here? We've seen these back and forth attacks. Where's this going?  Yes. Well, that's a great question. What's actually taking place here certainly, is the Iranians have wanted us out of Iraq ever since we got in there in  and they've worked to that end. And what this is about right now is still the same. Finding the Iraqi government, they want people to support for it, they want to weaken US resolve to keep our forces still there. And remember the reason why we're in Iraq now has to do with ISIS, taking over a third of Iraq and establishing a sanctuary in Syria. President Obama supported the troops going back in there. President Trump supported them staying there, actually increase some of them a little bit, and then reduce them to ,. It appears that the Biden administration, although hasn't made a pronouncement to that effect, at least appears to be continuing to support we have. Why is that, because we don't want ISIS to be to reemerge and become a threat to destabilize Iraq, and also be a threat to the American people. That is why we're there. As opposed to dealing with this specific situation, you know, I don't think we should walk up the ladder of escalation with the Iranians. I do agree with what we did the last time, an attack into Syria, didn't attack into Iraq and undermine the government of Iraq, which is in a tenuous situation because they push back on the Iranian regime. And that is a very good thing. I do think that the real backdrop here, Martha, is the Iranians and what do they really want. What the Iranians want is a removal of the sanctions. The sanctions have handcuffed them in terms of their full throttle financing of their operations in Lebanon, in Syria, and also in Yemen, and their operations in Iraq as well with their proxies to undermine the Iraqi government and to drive the Americans out. So if that is the central issue, let's apply some pressure to them along that central issue as opposed to firing more missiles into the area. And by that I mean, just tell the Iranians upfront, look, we know you want sanction relief and we know you have a ploy to do that by, you know, pulling out a full compliance of the so called Iranian deal in . That being the case, we're not even going to sit down and talk to you about sanction relief as long as you continue these operations against us. That's going to be off the table for future discussion unless you begin to change your behavior now. I think that would be much more meaningful.  And they said they're not coming to the table unless the sanctions get lifted. So it seems like we're in a pretty tight spot and they were back on their heels for a long time. They seem to be leaning a bit forward at this point. So we'll see where it goes, general. Thank you so much. Good to have you here today.  Good talking to you, Martha.  You too. So, first, it was Dr. Seuss books now another kid's favorite from the iconic author is now going under review. Also Meghan Markle, ditching her role as duchess, she'll still be called that but the some of the duties that went with it. But former aides say that she will always be the "queen of mean," new allegations about her behavior when the palace doors are closed. 
 And the hits just keep coming, more cancellations maybe ahead for Dr. Seuss. Universal Orlando reportedly evaluating their Seuss Landing attraction, which looks like a lot of fun. The company says Spectrum News is also pulling six books off its shelves after Seuss enterprises announced that they would do the same thing as not publishing them. Parts of Seuss Landing are based on two of those books, one is "If I Ran the Zoo" and the other is "To Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street," which include some black and Asian characters. Seuss Enterprises says all six books "portray people in ways that are hurtful and wrong." Dr. Seuss, or author Ted Geisel, was an ardent supporter of civil rights in the s and penned the "The Sneetches," which is a book against racism, and that was heralded by then President Obama. Listen. 
 Pretty much all the stuff you need to know is in Dr. Seuss. It's like the Star-Belly Sneetches, you know? We're all the same. So why would we treat somebody differently just because they don't have a star on their belly? 
 Nice comment back then. And this, Meghan Markle accused of bullying two personal assistants at Kensington Palace so terribly that they quit. According to the Times of London, Markel left "in tears and shaking with fear." The paper reports another staffer alerted the royal family about the bullying in , but Prince Harry asked them to drop it. A spokesman for the couple denies the accusations. Buckingham Palace says it is "very concerned." So with that we leave you. That is "The Story" of Wednesday, March rd. I'll see you back here tomorrow, everybody, have a great day.  is up next. 
Proposed law would legalize drugs like psilocybin, MDMA and LSD; reaction on 'The Five' This is a rush transcript from "The Five," March , . This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated  Hello, everybody. I'm Jesse Watters along with Juan Williams, Dana Perino, Greg Gutfeld, and Katie Pavlich. It's five o'clock in New York City and this is THE FIVE. It's a full-blown disaster at our southern border courtesy of Joe Biden. We are learning today that over  illegal immigrants infected with COVID were released by border patrol and they're free to travel across the country. Keep in mind, if an American citizen gets COVID they have to quarantine and if you are flying into America from a foreign country you have to show a negative COVID test but those same rules don't apply and there is even more. A new report says the Department of Homeland Security is projecting, there will be , unaccompanied child migrants crossing the border this year, that breaks all records. Nearly a  percent increase from the all-time record and much higher than last year. The report also warning there is not enough resources to handle that surge. Everybody can clearly see this is a crisis, well unless you work at the White House. 
 At what point does it become a crisis?  Well I would say I don't think we need to meet your bar of what we need to call it, we are approaching this humanely and we are approaching this in a way where we will keep the children safe.  Did you receive a briefing about the border today?  Yes, I did.  What did you learn?  A lot.  Is there a crisis at the border, sir?  Thank you.  No, we will be able to handle it. 
 All right, Gutfeld, I think they want this to happen, they invited this surge and then it's easier to smuggle a child across the border, they bring back chain migration, they grant amnesty or asylum to a child and that whole family gets to come up and become American citizens now. That's what they want, they vote Democrat and there you go.  Did he say God willing? Like after that, like everything is going to work. I mean, it doesn't inspire confidence when that's the last thing he said. I think that's what he said, right? God willing, you know? It's like your doctor when he's leaving, yes, is everything OK? God willing. You know? Thanks, pal. One hundred seventeen thousand child migrants unaccompanied by adults. So I asked this last week, what happened to their loving parents since November when Trump was accused of ripping children from their parents? Now it's like I am beginning to think we were lied to about that. That there weren't parents, that it was always like this. You know, my wife was gone for a couple months. She came home and found out all the plants were dead. And in science we call this cause and effect because I didn't water the plants and they all died. And so, what you are seeing on the border is the fastest, clearest refutation of disastrous liberal policy because its cause and effect. You remove friction, a barrier combined with a message that tells everybody it's OK to come. You get , unaccompanied child migrants. So, if you want to follow the science, that science it's cause and effect. If you eat every day at Cinnabon you are going to get fat. Why is it a disaster for the Democrats? Because it destroys any trust people have in your ability to solve any problems, your feel-good objectives result in impossible logistical challenge, you can't take care of , unaccompanied child migrants. The Democrats have these adolescent childlike goals but they have no process because they have no parents and the party to solve the problem.  Juan, if Biden doesn't really want this migrant surge, why isn't he doing everything he can to keep the migrants in Mexico or in Central America?  I think he is, Jesse, I think that this is a spike. 
 Then why did he get rid of all the policies that did that?  I believe, I believe most of those policies are still in effect and I think that they -- you know, when you look at the policies -- 
 No, they're not.  -- of the United States has had, I go across various administrations, we have seen these spikes, they come and they go, springtime, all the rest. And we just don't have a consistent strategy to deal with high tide, low tide and especially with unaccompanied minors given our amnesty position. But you know, the way we started talking about  kids,  plus kids who have coronavirus, you know, we have , Americans with coronavirus, right? So, I mean, why are we trying to pick on those kids? Let's look I think, more constructively and I hope all of us can agree. 
 We're not picking on that, Juan.  Let's look at what goes on that U.S.-Mexico border. Because the U.S. is Mexico's largest trading partner, Mexico is our largest trading partner, people cause -- cross that border for commerce, they cross for jobs, tourism and for immigration. It's the busiest border in the world. So, they are our neighbors, they are our business partners and it's long overdue. I think you go back to the 's. The last time that we had some significant immigration reform and set rules for what goes on, on the busiest border in the world including handling child migrants as opposed to simply saying, we are going to separate them from our parents and we're going to beat them up or something or build a fictional wall. I mean, this is all unbelievable. So I think for us on this show, if we are influencers, if we are voices I think all of us across political lines need to say to the Congress, stop the finger pointing, stop the blaming, get busy, let's do something significant for America and have immigration reform that does something about who crosses, when they cross, the DREAMers, the influx, let's do it.  Yes, we already had that, Juan, it was called a wall and remain in Mexico policy. And no catch and release.  My God.  All right. Dana, tell me about the communications deal, it looks like some of these Biden flacks are suffering, they are having a hard time filling questions even from the mainstream media about this issue, what's going on there?  It reminds me of, do you remember during the Obama years, the right and Fox News and others would give the Obama administration a really hard time because they would never say radical Islamic terrorists?  Yes.  They would just refuse to say it. And it was like, why won't you say, why won't you say it? And then they just dug in, it was like the more you ask them why don't they say it, they are not going to say it so I think that now we are in this situation. It doesn't matter, you can get , migrant children, they are not going to say it's a crisis because what you saw what  said, we are not going to meet your bar for that. OK, but that's fine. But people have their own eyes and ears. And to Juan's point, like I also, I think about, you know, the parents that tell their teenage kids, OK, this is where we drop you off, you are on your own, Godspeed. I mean, that -- it's not that they are heartless, it's like they are heartbroken. And the other thing that we haven't talked about is the fact that you cannot get all the things that one wants without border security. It's like Maslow's hierarchy of needs. You have to have security and then everything else can get you to enlightenment, but in the meantime, that base layer is security and part of that is also going to have to be really dealing with the cartels and the coyotes. You saw what happened yesterday with all of those people,  people,  people crammed into one SUV to try to get them into America illegally. They got hit by a semi-truck, several of them die, others are like wandering around the desert, there's children there, they don't have any restraints. Like, that is not caring for the human condition at all. But before we can -- and that is why you have to have border security that will let you do all of the other things like a temporary worker program, visas, DREAMers and things like that but until you get that base layer you are not going to be able to get those things done in Congress.  Yes. President Trump, Katie, did that, he threatened the Mexican president to designate the drug cartels as foreign terrorist organizations if he didn't start pleading up the surge from the south. And then the Mexicans put the army down along their Central American border and a lot of those caravans stopped. Biden comes in, Mexican army leaves and now we have this.  Well, and you have the new DHS secretary saying, basically, come right in but maybe wait for a little while. But the big scandal and the news of the day is the issue of the administration releasing  COVID-positive cases of people who come over the border who knowingly got on buses to go to different parts of the country. //foxnews.com piece who said, well, I tested positive, I don't feel anything so I'm going to get on a bus with my kid and go to North Carolina. Where is Dr. Fauci to talk about the super spreader event of a  positive people knowingly and voluntarily moving on to different parts of the country. Remember all these CDC graphics that they produced, one of the choirs, there is one, there are  people and one person in the choir had COVID and they spread it to six -- to  percent of the people in that room? So, if you add up the number of people, the  cases we know of that's thousands of people who are going to get this disease as a result of the federal government not doing a better job of making sure these people were quarantined. And the standards here are insane. Every state had different standards. In New York you have to quarantine for  days, or whatever, maybe it's changed since then, just for getting on a bus. Just for traveling, not even with a positive COVID test.  Right.  And for the White House today to say well, it's just a local issue. They are the ones who are about to send every American a mask. Why aren't they talking more about the idea that they are letting these people in who are COVID-positive after we've just gone through this pandemic. It's absolutely insane. It's insane.  Yes, you wouldn't do it in an airport so you shouldn't be doing it on foot across the southern border. Up next, the liberal media and Joe Biden going absolutely ballistics after Texas Governor Greg Abbott fully open the state up and ditches the mask mandate. 
 This must end. It is now time to open Texas  percent. 
 Texas Governor Greg Abbott saying his state will open soon fully. And he is causing controversy of course, by ending his state's mask mandate. President Biden scolding Texas and Mississippi for lifting mask restrictions. Watch this. 
 I think it's a big mistake. The last thing you need is Neanderthal thinking that in the meantime, everything is fine. Take off your mask. Forget it. It still matters. 
 And many in the media are not happy with Governor Abbott, either. 
 Governor Abbott has lost his mind.  This is obviously a political ploy on part of the governor.  The only reason I can see is because of what happened in Texas that someone dropped the ball and they are trying to change the conversation. That's it. A destruction.  This is part of this prevailing macho sentimentality that strong and wrong is the way to go.  The Texas governor said COVID be dead, everybody, go ahead and open up. You get some COVID, you get some COIVD, you get some COVID, you get some COVID. 
 Wow. This segment could've actually been the whole show. Jesse, let me start with you. So, one thing that's getting lost is that the governor was tying his decisions, and maybe didn't explain it well, to his goals for getting seniors vaccinated on vulnerable populations to a safe place before making this order.  Well, some state had to go first, it might as well be Texas. The same people complaining about this were the same people complaining about Georgia when they came out of the gate first and none of their predictions came true. They thought everyone down in Georgia was going to drop like flies, it didn't happen. He's following the advice of his medical team in Texas. I trust them, that's what governors do. They are going to take the lead on this and then other governors can see how this played out. I hate to say it Dana, I was in chart all day at the New York Times web site, Johnny's eyes were falling out of his skull, every single state had the same exact trend no matter mask mandate or not.  Yes.  It went a surge in the spring and summer and then down in the fall and then super surge in the winter and then it just falls off a cliff, precipitously no matter what you do. These are some boring numbers. Last month Texas had , cases a day, today they have , cases. Deaths are cut in half, hospitalizations , to ,. Texas is doing fantastic. I saw Newsom wagging his little finger at Abbott, where does he come off? Texas is beating California in pretty much every single metric and their economy is doing better. The major clusters in Texas are the nursing homes and the prisons. I'm sure people will still be wearing masks there. If you go to a restaurant, Dana, you put your mask on, you fake it until you walk to the table and then you rip it off and guzzle wine and have some, I don't know, steak and potatoes and then you put the mask on when you walk to the bathroom and then you leave. It's a joke. I've done this, you've done this, everybody has done this and I've never seen people complain that the government is not forcing them to do something. Texans can still wear masks if they want to.  Yes. Yes. In fact, we interviewed someone today on America's Newsroom  which sounds amazing. She said that they are going to still wear masks, Greg, because she thinks that that's the right thing to do for her restaurant. It's going to be socially distant. The word Neanderthal, let me tell you, that will get -- that's some fighting words, Greg, because that gets people in Texas to think don't mess with us.  What, I mean, what a surprise, though. It's always about people with Democrats. You are deplorable, you are unsalvageable, you are Neanderthal, you are probably a white supremacist that's guilty of white privilege. They only smear populations. Whereas, if you listened to Jesse just now, he brings up Newsom. We don't bring up Californians. We talk about Cuomo. We don't talk about New Yorkers. We talk about Joe. We don't talk about the United States. We talk about the mayor of Portland, we focus on the actual individuals, we don't go after Biden voters, right? Or Californians. But here's the issue with people like Joe Biden and those clones, you can't win against the wait until it's  percent safe argument because it will never be a  percent safe. That's the prism of two ideas. That's why Joe said, hey, maybe everything will be OK by next year this time. We saw this coming. We knew this because leaders and the media both have no skin in this game. They have jobs, they have exemptions, they have kids in private schools and tutors, they can go on forever and they'll be just great. But I want to talk about Texas just quickly. If Texas were a person, it's the person who leaves the lost group of hikers to go and seek help, it's the person who assumes the risk first on behalf of others. The state actually stepped up. You need of Texas in a world of leaders who have no problem shutting down things indefinitely. And the media, the media is that person in every disaster movie that needs to be slapped by the hero. Stop panicking. Like Gene Hackman in the "Poseidon" adventure is Texas and the media or the people going, I don't know what to do. And yet, .  Pull yourself together.  Yes.  Hey, Juan, there are  other states I believe that didn't have a mask mandate either. Are they do you think that they are going to get the Neanderthal label?  I don't like the label like you don't but I must say, I think in those other states they have not done away, they haven't said we are open, you know, in that way. So, what -- to me, look, I think this is a sign of progress that Texas thinks, so, yes, we can do this now. It may be premature. I think it's, you know, to my mind it's a sign of impatience on the governor's part but I think it's a sign of progress in the sense that we are. They see declining rates of infection in the country right now --  Yes.  -- in Texas. New COVID cases, you know, right now they're down. I think at  percent since inauguration day, since Biden took office if you want to put it that way. But that's true for us all. So, I think a lot of people are like optimistic. They're saying, hey, the spring is coming, you know, the sun is out.  Yes, OK.  The numbers are going down. And so we can do it. But I think, you know, look, a lot of this is left over from Trump, he mishandled the pandemic. His own pollsters said he thinks that's why he lost the election. And now, you have people saying, hey, look, things like, you know, Biden took the bull by the horns, maybe we can just do what we want to do. But I think that's a mistake.  Katie, I hope that reopening states so that economies can get back going and businesses can open is not going to become the political like everything else.  Yes. Well, the media is already making it political as if they know better. You know, unless they are going to start covering the fact that the Biden administration it's allowing COVID-infected migrants, illegal immigrants to get on buses to spread this disease to other people, they have no business talking about any of this. And also, why is Joe Biden still wearing a mask? He's been vaccinated. Like this virtue signaling that continues on is just really getting tiresome and states start opening only because cases are going down, they are opening because people are demanding that their government be representative of them and stop infringing on their ability to make money and to make a living. So, it's a combination of all those things.  OK. Next up, here's a phrase I never thought I'd say. Dropping acid can soon be legal. Decriminalizing psychedelic drugs in big blue states is gaining momentum and Greg has a monologue on that. 
 California lawmaker might have discovered the only reason to stay in California. Scott Wiener is introducing a bill to decriminalize psychedelic drugs like Psilocybin, LSD, NMDA, Ketamine, DMT, among others. The bill will focus on their medical benefits regarding PTSD, depression, and other ailments. But these drugs are also known for making people love people more. Right, Dana?  It will make you fall in love with your fellow humans and your fellow citizens all over again.  Well, another satisfied customer. See, we were raised to believe drugs were evil by the same media who got everything else wrong, too, the same media that let us on politics, religion, nuclear power, the coming ice age, gun data and law enforcement. They also demonized drug use because it attracts eyeballs. Meanwhile, the war on drugs produced more casualties than most real wars, forcing consumers to purchase drugs on the street and that's how people die, diverted to the ill-measured concoctions mixed with truly deadly crap sold on the streets that lead to O.D.'s. Those mass numbers of opioid overdoses weren't from prescriptions but street drugs laced with fentanyl. I wonder how many other drug overdoses were due to that same pattern. Illegality sending users to deadly substances. Look, the media narratives have of always gotten the big threats wrong, whether it's terror or the pandemic, instead they focus on fears that are easily marketable and understood, drugs are evil. But they aren't. The desire to obstruct your right to relief is. How is drug control any different than gun control? It's about your right as an adult to make educated decisions. Give us that freedom and fewer people will die from the unscientific decisions of others. Well, Dana, that was a brave stance you took.  I just have a question. If we can now do drugs legally in California, can we also do indoor dining? Is that a risk that were worth -- that is worth taking? So, you know, we're talking about Dr. Seuss today and things like that, and I always wonder, what are we doing right now that in, you know, , ,  years from now people will look back and like, wow, they were crazy. How could they possibly have thought that? And it really could be that this is one of those issues that they look back, and they're like, wow, why would they have done this? The war on drugs didn't work. Now, the Just Say No Campaign, it worked for me. And I'm perfectly happy with that. But if there -- if there is relief to be had for people who are suffering from drugs like this, and they're comfortable with it, and they're making good decisions, and maybe it's even under a doctor's supervision, if they -- if that's needed, hey, so be it.  Yes. Somebody tells me if it was a just say yes, you still would have said no.  Absolutely.  Katie, you probably know more about guns than anybody at Fox. You have to spend like at least half your time correcting the data whenever you're in a debate, right? It's like they come in, they don't know what an AR  is or whatever. Everybody gets the wrong thing backwards. So, how can you trust the media or the last  years on the -- on drug data is what I'm saying? That's what I -- that's my epiphany.  Yes. So, this is an issue that I don't know much about. I think that it would be better if we allowed a well-managed red state to take this on first, rather than California, because I don't trust that California will do this well or be fair to the experiment. I think if you did it on a very small scale and had an open debate about it and more information on the other end of the spectrum about it, we could have a conversation about moving forward to maybe changing some things rather than sticking to the status quo and the same narrative. But you've also seen this on the other side of things where people who are in a lot of pain can't get legal drugs, meaning like painkillers, and they end up committing suicide because they have such a horrible, horrible living situation. So, we've overshot on that in terms of not getting people the things that they need, and then maybe legalization of these things is also a little bit of a stretch too far. But I am open to being convinced.  I will -- I will convince you. So, Juan, if I rent a small private plane for both of us to go to California, will you go to the desert with me and drop acid?  Why not. Didn't Buckley sail off the coast so he could get high?  Yes, he did. He did.  I bet that's right. But, you know, look, I think you're onto something. I'm not sure we agree, but I think you're onto something because here in the District of Columbia, this was on the ballot last November. It was also on the ballot in Oregon. And in both places, the voters legalized it and said it's OK. So, you know, I mean -- you know, I don't get it in some ways. I voted against it, by the way. But this to me is an extension of marijuana legalization. You know, but to me psychedelics are much more serious than smoking pot. And, you know, I agree with you guys. Everybody said, war on drugs was a mistake. It put people in jail unnecessarily. But to me, you know, when you think about psychedelics, I think psychedelics are different not only than marijuana, they're different than cocaine, they're different than heroin. I think psychedelics are not cocaine and heroin in terms of addiction, but they are serious drugs that could damage mentally ill people in significant ways.  Jesse, that's why it is important to control the purity and dosage of these substances, which is what we do with caffeine and cigarettes.  True, but you never know what you're getting.  But then, you will.  Although I do want to join you with Juan. Are they going to have government-regulated labs in California to give you the perfect ounce? I'm not so sure.  That would be great.  Yes, possibly.  Boy, that is going to be something.  Listen, you and I disagree on blanket legalization. I'm not into your crazy stuff with a hardcore narcotics like heroin and meth and crack. That's addictive and dangerous and destroys lives. Just ask the addicts about it.  You have no evidence.  But therapeutic properties -- therapeutic -- well, ask an addict, Greg. There's one sleeping on the sidewalk right outside my van right here.  They're hooked on impure substances.  I'm talking about -- I'm talking about people that are suffering from PTSD. If you want to try something like MDMA under a doctor's supervision, that's fine. Or if you're just an adult that wants to take acid, go wander around California and enjoy the weather, no one is going to stop you. What I worry about is high school kids, Gutfeld.  What about the children?  If you're going to dabble in it, and you're set on it, just don't do it every weekend. A lot of people just can't handle it. You know, you don't want to be one of those kids that's doing it every single weekend.  That's for them to decide though, Jesse. You could say that about firearms -- you could say that about firearms, you could say that about alcohol, and almost anything that is safe can also be dangerous.  Exactly. And I'm just saying kids in high school don't have the wherewithal to determine am I going to drop six tabs on a Saturday and do it again next weekend for the rest of the year, or are they going to take it once, enjoy it, and then maybe never do it again? It's a different kind of experience, OK. You know it and I know it.  Yes. But individuals in a free country should have the right to seek their own oblivion --  Not my child.  -- whether it's a martini after work or  heroin. All right, up next, Andrew Cuomo speaking out for the first time about harassment allegations and begging for forgiveness. 
 New York Governor Andrew Cuomo speaking out publicly for the first time on his sexual harassment scandal. He also addressed the growing calls to step down. Take a look. 
 I'm not going to resign. I acted in a way that made people feel uncomfortable. It was unintentional and I truly and deeply apologize for it. I never touched anyone inappropriately. You can go find hundreds of pictures of me kissing people, men, women. It is my usual and customary way of greeting. 
 Jesse, he's not resigning. Could this buy him time and then by the time the investigation concludes, it's all old news?  Yes. He's trying to ride it out. But listen to what he just said. This is my usual customary way of greeting. This is what politicians do. They live in a world where they work a room. You go in there, you backslap, your handshake, you hug, you kiss, and people come up to them, and they do the same thing to them. They're fans, they say, I love you, Governor, you're the best. So, you get this familiarity with this closeness and this warmth by the way you interact as a politician with crowds. But slime balls like Cuomo or Franken or even Joe Biden, who's been accused of doing the same thing, they take advantage of access to these types of people, fans or colleagues. So, it can very quickly go from consensual arm around to that arms going lower, lower, lower, lower, lower, until the woman say what are you doing. And it's so shocking for the woman because she generally usually admires this politician. And she can't believe that it just gone from a normal friendly interaction to this guy's putting his hands in places that I can't believe it's happening. So, I would suggest that women -- and I've gotten in trouble for saying this before, you slap the man in the face, and you do it immediately. Because if you wait too long, then the politician feels like he can keep doing this. And it doesn't matter if it comes out a year, three years later. Do it immediately when it's fresh.  Wow. OK, Katie, the governor said he didn't know he's making people uncomfortable. Can you buy that in ?  I don't know. I can't get inside of his head. I would rather have him apologize for shoving people's elderly parents and grandparents into nursing homes and then having them die and have him not care about any of that and cover up the numbers, and of course, not cooperate with the federal investigation or any kind of local investigation or turning over information to Democrat and Republican lawmakers in New York. I wish that he would apologize for that kind of behavior, in addition to apologizing for making a number of people uncomfortable.  So, Dana, do you think this is a maturation of MeToo due process and an apology?  Well, no. I think it just is -- you know, it continues and he is trying to buy time. This is what some of the other men have been accused of this stuff try to say to try to, like ride it out. You know, Joe Biden had a similar thing. He's like, I didn't know. I didn't realize. But here's the other thing that gets to me. He kept saying in this press conference. I didn't touch anyone, like, oh, is that the new standard of exercising power over a subordinate in the workplace? Someone alert the H.R. department because that's not -- that's certainly not how the sexual harassment training goes that we all go through that he put in place as governor.  So, Greg, we see some Democrats at least one calling for him to get out. You think if he was a Republican governor, Republicans would be calling for him to resign?  Probably, I don't know. It's a tough -- it's a tough question. My problem is why this and not that to Katie's point. You know, Cuomo could have kissed a thousand nuns on the lips every day for a month and it's still not as bad as the rest home massacre. So, I -- you know, I thought -- to me, I felt that the apology was pathetic. It was groveling. It was painful, because he's so serious and devastated for these accusations of three women saying that they made him uncomfortable, but that's -- but it's not about the rest homes. It's like - - it's like he's -- it's like you're guilty of armed robbery, but they're charging you with double parking. It makes no sense to me. And I just can't get past that. When I'm watching how -- like that apology should have been for the rest homes. When you're watching how he's choking up, that's what -- I'm like -- going like, how is this possible? Is this -- is this  that it's far worse to do that than to do this? I don't know. I'm at a loss, Juan.  All right. OK, "THE FASTEST," it's up next here on THE FIVE. 
 I just think -- yes, men who wear makeup are so narcissistic. I mean, I think what you want to do is just be comfortable with your flaws and own it. And that's what makes a man a man.  Juan?  I think this is great. This is a conversation among men wearing makeup about men wearing makeup. I think that's pretty crazy. I think all the men here wear makeup.  Greg?  Not just on the face either, Juan. I have it all over my body. It's disgusting. You know what I noticed though? I noticed, and I bet you everybody will agree with me, people are way better looking now than when I was younger. And I think it's because of YouTube instructions have made everybody hotter. Like people now know how to do stuff. Like when I was a kid, I had to live with my pimples in my funky hair. But now you just go on YouTube and you get all the answers. And if you're a five, you go to a . That's all I got.  You know, Dana, the funny thing about working in television is that you see all kinds of men getting makeup like the President of the United States, the CIA Director, all these -- you know, the Defense Secretary, all these men, these manly men.  Well, I'm not --  Katie, don't tell our enemies that the Defense Secretary wears makeup. That's going to be used as propaganda.  I think -- I think --  You know what, Vladimir Putin also wears makeup.  I think most men I know don't actually like wearing makeup, but they know that they need to. Richard Nixon taught them that. I really see this as a great business opportunity for you, Jesse. What about a line of Jesse Watters and "WATTERS' WORLD" makeup at Sephora?  I mean, why am I -- Greg is the one that enjoys putting his own makeup on, and that's a direct quote.  It's true. I will not lie.  Well, Zoom has done a lot, that's for sure, including introducing a number of men to the world of makeup that Jesse, Juan, and Greg know very well. "ONE MORE THING" is up next. 
 All right, time for "ONE MORE THING." So, unlike many people on this show, I actually admit when I'm wrong, and I think that gives me a lot of credibility for when I'm right, which is pretty much all the time. So, roll the tape. 
 Take a look at this. German Shepherd --  German Shepherd?  -- he's been bullied by a Doberman.  It's a Golden Retriever.  Wait, I thought that was a German Shepherd. Here is a -- what is this thing, a cocker spaniel? Here is a Labrador looking at himself in the mirror.  We need to get Jessie a  dog book. 
 So, I've been brushing up on my breeds because obviously, I have no idea what I'm talking about. Katie Pavlich sent me, it's called Every Dog, a book of over  breeds. I learned a lot about Rookie in here, like his lifespan, which was a little unsettling. But you know, there's stuff here about Chow Chow, a Chinese dog that migrated into China from Antarctica. It tells you everything, exercise requirements --  Wow, yes, books do that.  So, get this book. Yes, a lot of books. I'm reading a lot.  It's like he discovered there's a book on dogs.  I want you to have the facts, Jesse.  And there's a dog in China.  Yes, Greg, there's  more breeds in here. I'll send you a copy too. Dana Perino who needs no book.  Well, here's a dog breed. I don't know if you've read about this. It's in the B's for boxer. In case that's alphabetical book there. And this boxer reminded me last weekend. I was so tired, I was yawning so hard at the Landers house for dinner. This was me at the table. I mean, he just doesn't want to go to bed. He's like I'm trying so hard to stay awake. It's just very difficult when it sneaks up on you.  I might fell asleep doing that.  Is a boxer.  Greg.  At the Landers house you're having dinner.  Yes, the Landers.  The Landers. Well, wasn't that delightful.  One of the fan.  You know the landers.  Right. My podcast is with Doug Brod. He's got a new book out called They Just Seem A Little Weird. It's all about Cheap Trick, Aerosmith, and how they made rock in roll. It's a great book. I enjoyed it. Now let's do this. Greg's Celebrity Sightings. So, I was jogging down in -- where was I? I was in Central Park jogging and who did I run into, but my dear friend, Alec Baldwin. And he was getting an outdoor massage. He was completely relaxed and also naked. He's a very, very hairy man. And look -- just look how happy he is getting that little massage and his little hairy coats.  Scratches.  Yes. And that is it for me.  Well, he deserves it.  Yes.  He just had another child --  Six now.  So, it's time to unwind.  Yes.  That's right. He's making America great again. Juan, go ahead.  All right, President Biden, Jill Biden, President Trump, Melania Trump, and now real royalty. Yes, take a look. Dolly Parton getting her COVID shot. 
 Vaccine, vaccine, vaccine, vaccine, I'm begging you please don't hesitate. Vaccine, vaccine, vaccine, vaccine. 
 As you heard, the -year-old sang a song. She changed the word of -- words of Jolene to vaccine. My queen of country music waited until the vaccines becoming more widely available. She said she didn't want anyone to think she was jumping the line before now. She thought, you know what, she didn't want to create any confusion. But it would have been alright with me if she'd gone first. Parton donated $ million to Vanderbilt Medical Center last year to help with the development of the Coronavirus vaccine.  Yes, I think a lot of men that were on the fence about getting the shot after they saw Dolly, I think they're going to get it now. Katie, go ahead.  All right.  You got to love Dolly. All right, it is National Anthem Day. We're celebrating our great national anthem, The Star-Spangled Banner. Of course, it was written by Francis Scott Key many, many years ago, but was adopted as the national anthem through a Congressional Resolution and signed by President Herbert Hoover in . So, happy National Anthem Day.  All right. That's a good one.  That's right. Don't kneel for it. You got to stand, right, Juan?  Oh, my gosh. Oh, my gosh.  That's it for us. "SPECIAL REPORT" is up next with Bret. 
 Thank you, John and Sandra. Great to see you today. Good afternoon, everybody. I'm Martha McCallum live here in New York. Here's the story that is happening right now. Here we go. Congress is now taking up the latest piece of the second largest government spending stimulus package in history. This part of it is $. trillion on top of the $ trillion. We have never been in this territory before folks of the previous relief packages. This as new research emerges that shows, you know what states actually did better during the pandemic than originally thought. And Americans saved $. trillion as they hunkered down, didn't go to restaurants and go to bars, all of that and saved a ton of money. That is pent up right now once this economy gets out moving. Still, despite those realities, and a reopening of the economy in a number of places and a declining virus. The President believes politically that passing this bill is crucial, and this is important to his larger agenda. 
 It's a show of strength, and a first step forward to restoring their faith in the capacity of government to have their backs. Now, if we deliver on this, it also builds momentum, the bill's real, enthusiasm as well. And I will make everything else we want to deliver. This will make everything more possible to get it done. 
 So, you hear that, that's very important. He added it all starts here. It starts by bringing this meaning, the . trillion home. So, here is some of what else is probably in the pipeline starting with a call for healthcare for a now vastly increasing migrant population. Look back at some of these wish list signups. 
 Raise your hand if covered if your government plan would provide coverage for undocumented immigrants.  Particularly Puerto Rico votes for it. D.C. already has voted for it and wanted, I'd love to make them states.  In , there were nine justices on the court. Our population has grown enormously since then. Should we expand the court? Well, let's take a look and see. 
 So, those are some of the ideas in the larger agenda. Senate Minority Whip John Thune taking a quick break from what's happening on the Senate floor. He's going to join us in just a moment. First, we touch base with White House Correspondent Kristin Fisher with the very latest on the north lawn. Hi, Kristin.  Hey, Martha. Well, the White House is watching very closely to see how its COVID relief package fares in the Senate. And Republicans are threatening to draw out this vote-o-rama as long as possible. The White House is still hoping to get that on the President's desk on or before March th, which is just  days away. So, a very tight timeline. And once that happens, then President Biden is really going to begin focusing on some of his other big ticket items, things like infrastructure and immigration. In fact, President Biden just finished meeting with a bipartisan group of lawmakers about his infrastructure plan, but a lot of the specifics are on hold until after the COVID relief package gets through, and so is the President's first address to a joint session of Congress. The White House still won't say when that will be. Here's the White House Press Secretary on Wednesday. 
 We made a decision internally that we weren't going to have the president proposed his forward-looking agenda beyond that, meant parts of his build back better agenda, still being determined. Policies discussion still going on internally until after that bill is signed. 
 We're also still waiting for President Biden to hold his first formal news conference. Now, he did take about  minutes worth of questions on January th, including two questions from my colleague, Peter Doocy. But all three of his most recent predecessors had held formal press conferences, formal news conferences by this point in their presidency. Now, the President does answer some shouted questions from reporters, he answered a few shouted questions just a few moments ago, he took two of mine on Tuesday. But Martha as you know, taking questions that are shouted at him as reporters are moving in and out of a room very different from a formal news conference. And we still don't know when that first one is going to be. Martha.  Yes, Martha, it gives you the opportunity to just sort of keep walking to, if that's what you want to do in that environment. Kristin, thank you very much. Kristin Fisher at the White House. Joining me now Senate Minority Whip, John Thune of South Dakota. Senator, thank you so much for being here. Good to have you here today.  Thanks, Martha.  You know, just going back to what you heard the President say there he said it's so important to pass this because this is the beginning of the rest of our agenda. So, sort of not focus so much on the dollar figures and what's in it, but just that politically it's really important. He says, we want to demonstrate that to people that the government has your back. What do you think about that?  I think your reporting earlier on covered it. I mean, this is part of a much broader far-left agenda. And I've said this before, but Bernie Sanders wing of the Democrat Party is running the show up here on Capitol Hill. And this is the first step, and obviously a $. trillion bill, which is second to the Cares Act that we passed a year ago, the largest spending bill ever in the history of the country. At a time when we've got, you know, enormous amounts of debt, all this is borrowed money. And we ought to be thinking about how do we target this? How do we do it in a fiscally responsible way? How do we help people who really need help to the pandemic? But, but look at what we can do to get the economy growing and expanding again and creating jobs, Martha, that's ultimately what we want to see happen. And the way to do that, obviously, is to keep taxes low, regulations low have a good energy policy; it isn't to have a lot more government spending on things that, frankly, are totally unrelated to the pandemic.  So, you know, I guess one of the questions is, does that matter to the majority of Americans anymore, those kinds of fiscal responsibility points that you just made, and I was reading, you know, list of economists, including Mark Zandi and others, who said, you know, if we could write this bill again, this . trillion, given what we know now about how things are improving across the country? Yes, we'd probably scraped, you know, a few  billion off of this bill, but you know, it is what it is, and it's about to get voted on. I mean, it's pretty astonishing.  It is, and if you look at there's a lot of economic analysis being done out there right now, that suggests that continuing to flood the economy with more and more money, increasing the money supply, we're starting to see inflation tick up that interest rates will follow that has dramatic implications for the federal government and its fiscal picture. But it also has a big impact on people across the country when things that they have to buy go up in price when interest rates on their mortgages and their car loans. All those things go up, that squeezes family budgets as well. And I think that what we're talking about here, obviously, is something that has a lot of payoffs to Democrats, special interests, the state and local money,  billion, you mentioned it. I mean, if you look year over year, cumulatively, all the states in the country, one-tenth of one percent, off of the previous year's revenue, and yet we're going to send California $ billion in this bill, and they've got a surplus in California this year. So, the question is, the taxpayers in places like South Dakota, and North Carolina, and Georgia and Arizona have to spend their hard-earned tax dollars to bail out states like California, New York and places, which really, frankly, as all the evidence we have, are doing pretty well.  Yes. You know, the effort. Just, you know, from your side, in terms of the Senate how this proceeds. Ron Johnson wants to read the entire bill, I think its  or  pages long. It's going to take hours and hours to discuss the amendments and all of that. Do you, are you a believer that that's a good thing to do for people, you know, how does that help you in terms of drawing attention to the points that you're making? And do you think that you'll, there'll be the support for a roll call vote so that every member has to stand up and be counted on this bill?  There will be a roll call vote at the end and every Republican should vote against it. And the reason why is they completely cut us out of the process. This should be the most bipartisan thing we do. It's pandemic relief. When we had the majority last year we did five coronavirus relief bills, all bipartisan, all at the  vote threshold normally required in the Senate under regular order. The Democrats chose to bypass that; they didn't want a single Republican vote on this. They didn't talk to the committees have had no input into this. This was rushed to the floor and what they get now in terms of delays and, and an opportunity for us finally, to talk about the bill to offer amendments that we've been cut out of the process up until now. So, you know, it's up to Republicans to shine a light on what they're doing here, not only in terms of the process, but all the unnecessary un-COVID related spending that's in this bill.  percent of the money for education doesn't get spent this year. How can you call that an emergency? It gets spent in  and ? Those, that's not, that's not that's not an emergency, Martha, that's not urgent. That's not what this should be about.  Yes, I mean, education spending, they've already got  billion allocated, and they've only spent . billion of it. It's pretty tough to wrap your head around why you need another  billion when you've got  billion that's already been allocated, but not even spent yet. So, Senator, we'll be watching this process closely. And we thank you very much for joining us this afternoon. Good to see you.  Thanks, Martha. Good to be with you. Bye now.  So, also breaking, just short time ago, the White House pressed on this comment from the President on the reopening and dropping of mask mandates in Texas and Mississippi. 
 The last, the last thing we need is Neanderthal thinking that in the meantime, everything's fine, take off your mask. Forget it. It still matters. 
 Texas business owners on both sides of that debate join us next. We'll be right back. 
 A little bit of cleanup today on the Neanderthal comment as the President yesterday sort of clapped back at governors for opening up their states and for dropping their mask mandates. 
 The behavior of a Neanderthal, just to be very clear. The behavior of, look, I think the President what, what we what everybody saw yesterday was a reflection of his frustration and exasperation, which I think many American people have. 
 So, when asked about being compared to the behavior of a Neanderthal, here's what Texas Governor Abbott said about that this morning. 
 Is not the type of thing that a president should be saying. The Biden administration was spreading COVID in South Texas yesterday because of their lack of constraint of testing and quarantining people who'd come across the border illegally. 
 So, in Texas, there has been a  percent increase in positive cases in the past week. The CDC agrees now is not the time to ease up cautioning about the variance and about further spread. But as you can see, there's a lot of division on this topic. So Correspondent Jonathan Serrie sorts it out for us. Hi, Jonathan.  Hey there, Martha. The U.S. has administered more than  million doses, about  percent of the population has received at least their first dose of vaccine, and states are expanding eligibility as the supply increases. For example, Indiana and Michigan will start vaccinating people  and older. Dr. Anthony Fauci says as larger numbers of Americans get vaccinated, the nation can expect a gradual return to normal. 
 I think by the time we get to the fall with the implementation of the vaccine program, you're going to see something that's noticeably in the direction of going back to normality and very likely get there by the end of the year. 
 In the meantime, federal health officials say wearing masks and social distancing will be essential to slowing the spread of new highly contagious variants. But next week, Texas will join  other states that do not have mask mandates. Yesterday, Mississippi and its requirements. Major grocery chains, including Kroger and target say they will continue requiring employees and customers to wear face coverings. Governors and states lifting mass requirements say they still want people to follow safety protocols, but they want to take government out of the business of enforcing them. And today, Martha, Alabama governor Kay Ivey announced that she is extending her mask mandate through April th, just to give businesses in her state time to develop their own safety protocols. But after that, she is taking her state out of the business of enforcing mask wearing, Martha.  A lot of changes afoot. Jonathan, thank you very much. Joining me now are from Texas, are two small business owners with mixed reaction to the lifting of these restrictions. Bob Sambhal is the Founder of Bob's Steak and Chop House in Dallas, and Danette Wicker Owner of Danette's Urban Oasis in Fort Worth, Texas. Great to have both of you with us today. Thank you for being with us. Obviously, this is pretty big news when it broke yesterday, Bob. What was your reaction to the governor's changes?  Well, I was surprised, I was I was expecting to go into  percent capacity. I was not expecting him to lift the mask mandate. I feel it's a little premature. We've gotten used to it, bringing them, my customers have gotten used to wearing them. I would have waited a little bit longer. I think that what he wanted to do was to put it again in the in the hands of the business owners and the people rather than government restrictions. I think it was very calculated what he did. I'm a big fan of Governor Abbott, I think he's a good governor. But it was Texas Independence Day, weather's getting nicer more and more people are outdoor dining, more and more people are doing outdoor activities. I think it has a good chance that there won't be any major disruption to the decline in numbers. Because it is so -- what we're going to do is we're going to insist all our employees management myself are going to will still wear masks. And instead of the sign on the door that says you must walk in with a mask or face covering. We're going to say, we suggest you walk in with a mask or face covering.  Yes, very interesting. Danette, what was your reaction? And what's the impact on your business?  I felt that we were caught unawares. Obviously, as a small business owner, we all want to be  percent and back to whatever life was like before COVID. But living with a virus that is that easily spread, and then in one day, we were told that it was  percent. So, we were open. And then the mask mandate was being pulled back. Well, in Fort Worth the mask mandate, went out the window last night. So, as soon as he did the press conference, people literally stopped wearing their face masks.  So, even though, I don't think it kicks in until sometime next week, but you're saying that the people were happy and they were excited to just get rid of the mask, right, Danette?  Exactly. And ours was our judge, our county judge, decided that it would be instantly yesterday.  I see.  And not until the th which is what the Governor's order was.  So, Danette, what's the impact on your day to day?  Well, I enforce face mask. I am a massage therapist and a nail tech and I am forward facing touching people every day. So, I believe face mask are necessary. I am fully vaccinated. I have both my COVID- vaccinations under my belt which I'm very happy about. Yes, but that is not a guarantee against variants, against asymptomatic people. So, we are not out of the woods yet and I am very concerned for my livelihood.  Do you think you're going to have people who come in who say, you know, the Governor says, I don't need a mask? So I'm coming in without it?  I won't, because they won't come into my personal business. My rule for my business is my rule for my business.  Yes, I mean, that's the bottom line. You know, you're the business owner. And I think that's in part, Bob, real quick, what the Governor wanted to change, you know, to make clear that that wasn't going to come from the state, but that is any business owner, any individual, you have the option to run your business the way you want to.  Yes, and, and that's what he accomplished. And to be honest with you, I think, I think what we're trying to do, I'm a little different situation than she is. People, you know, they, they -- our business has been getting much better since the freeze was over a couple of weeks ago. And so, it is on the increase, it has been increasing. People are, more and more people are getting vaccinated more and more people are feeling comfortable about going out. And so, I think this kind of pushes the button a little more, maybe a little more than I thought, but it still does.  All right, Bob and Danette, thank you. Good luck with your businesses, and thanks for talking to us today. Good to see you.  Thank you so much!  You bet. All right, so we're going to go live in New Jersey, we're fed up parents concerned about the welfare of their children are taking their battle about going back to school to court, next. 
 Back to the live action on the Senate floor where moments ago Vice President Kamala Harris broke the / tie to formally advanced debate on the President's $. trillion COVID relief bill. So, that process is underway. We're going to keep a close eye on that as it moves through the Senate, which could take a while from what we're hearing. And the first lady paying a visit to a Connecticut school this week as the clock ticks on the President's deadline to reopen within the first  days. Schools across this country, a plan being met with some resistance from some of the unions. Here's the Los Angeles Union president arguing "wealthy white parents are to blame." 
 If you condition funding on the reopening of schools, that money will only go to white and wealthier schools. This is a recipe for propagating structural racism. We have to call out the privilege behind the largely white wealthy parents driving the push for a rushed return. 
 OK, we're going to talk about that with the Wall Street Journal in just a moment. But first, Fox Business Network's Lydia Hu is in New Jersey, where parents are suing the district in court. Hi, Lydia.  Hi there, Martha. Parents in Montclair, New Jersey say they have no other option than to turn to the courts now as teachers continue to refuse to return to the classroom. So, group of parents have gotten together and they have filed a federal class action lawsuit against the school board. They're not asking for any money, but they're asking the court to order that school go back to in person instruction. Parents say their kids are being deprived of their constitutional right to an education. 
 Devastating is probably an understatement for our children and the children of the community. Whether it's academic, emotional, physical, you know, there are a lot of byproducts of being remote and not having interaction with teachers and other students that have been quite detrimental to the overall development welfare of kids. 
 Now, meanwhile, New Jersey Governor Phil Murphy announced that teachers can begin getting the vaccine March th. But still, the Teachers Union for the Montclair school district would not commit to any in person learning yet, even after the announcement about the vaccinations. They tell us, "While the vaccine will certainly assuage our members' anxiety and concerns for personal and loved one's safety," and they go on, "it does not change our opinion." Now, we reached out to the school board and the superintendent for comment, and they declined, saying that they couldn't comment on active litigation. But it should be noted that the school board has also filed its own lawsuit against the teachers union in an effort to resume in person learning, Martha.  Amazing. Everybody's suing everybody and the kids are still back at home. Lydia, thank you very much. Lydia Hu from the Business Network. So, a new editorial in the Wall Street Journal lays out how Teachers Unions, they say, are advancing their own interests by playing the race card to avoid returning to the classroom. Joining me now for wise words, Wall Street Journal Columnist and Editorial Board Member, Bill McGurn, and Columnist Jason Riley, also a Senior Fellow with the Manhattan Institute. Jason and Bill, great to have you both with me today. Thank you for being here. Jason, I'd like to start with you. You heard in the introduction, the head of the L.A. Teachers Union, who basically said that if you link funding to in person training, to in person schooling, you are propagating structural racism, and she blamed white parents for that. What do you think about that argument?  Well, I think she's at least being honest in her, in her argument about what her priorities are. And it's clearly continuing to get paid without fully doing her job. And the teachers continuing to get paid without doing their job. And I think more and more people are coming to see what's really going on here, which is that the unions are putting their own interest ahead of the parents and ahead of the children who they claim to be, to care about. And, and I think their position is just continuously untenable and more and more untenable, as this stretches out. And you see the backlash not only in places like New Jersey, but another wealthy suburbs, you know, Brookline, Massachusetts, outside of Boston, we've seen this, the Philadelphia suburbs, we've seen this. And these are not Republicans necessarily; they are not Trump supporters, Martha, these are places that voted, you know,   percent for Joe Biden.  Yes.  But they're also parents that, you know, Carolina about education in some cases rearrange their entire life to make sure that their kids can go to the right schools. They bought homes in certain neighborhoods. They pay exorbitant property taxes, all for the purposes of education. They look around, they see restaurants open. They see gyms open. They see private schools open, colleges. They see public transit workers doing their job and they say to the teachers, why can't our kids go back to school?  Yes. And they see other schools that are wide open, and they see very low transmission rates. You know, Bill, I'm very interested in the legal side of this, and I actually want to put up this screen about teen mental health claims. Overdoses up %, anxiety up %, depression up %, these are from FAIR Health. They study the insurance claims that are put forward, in the diagnosis and the symptoms to mark those numbers. But at what point, you know, when you pay your taxes, as Jason says, right? You pay your taxes, you pay the school system, at what point do to the families win? Do they say, you know what, you're taking away our civil right to a public education. We've paid for this education with our tax dollars. We expect to receive it. So, if you're not going to come and do it, then let's get someone else to do it. Let's go outside the union and hire some teachers who are not in the union to carry out the duty that you have committed to do with these tax dollars.  Yes. I think Jason partly answered that. The problem with public schools, especially in our big cities, is that the schools are not run by the mayors and city councils, and the administrators, it run by the teachers unions, and then run for the benefit of teachers.  How America's Most Progressive Cities Betray Their Commitment to Educational Opportunity for All." All these kids are suffering. You know, we're never going to even know how many kind of futures were sacrificed because of this, because that, you know, some people couldn't learn remotely and so forth. There's going to be a tremendous human cost. And, you know, the teachers union person who talked about structural racism. I mean, if you believe in structural racism, and you look at the record of our big city public school systems, in teaching poor black and Latino kids. It's a national disgrace and it should be changed. And it seems that the teachers unions, their number one priority is to keep any of these kids who need some help from going to a Catholic school or charter school, where they get a decent education.  Yes. No, they don't want that. And that has provided an opportunity. I saw the saddest story the other day, community worker was driving through the streets of Detroit searching for kids that have completely dropped off the radar. They don't show up for their Zoom classes. And this man was so, you know, his heart was so in the right place. He's like if I see a bicycle outside, I think maybe they're still there, trying to track down these children who have completely, they call the disappearing children, who had disappeared from the entire school system since it started. And it is absolutely heartbreaking and I commend him for, you know, doing what he can to try to find these children. But, boy, you're right. We're going to we're going to reap the outcomes of this for quite some time. Jason, thank you, Bill. Thank you. Great to see you both today.  Thank you.  So breaking right now, the urgent request from US Capitol Police to keep lawmakers safe. And still ahead from Dr. Seuss to Dr. Ben Carson. He now has some original poetry to share with you today and I urge you to stick around to hear it. It's pretty good. 
 Capitol Police now planning to ask the National Guard to stay at the Capitol for another two months, but with fewer troops. And Fox News has an exclusive look at a draft of recommendations from retired Lieutenant General Russel Honore, who is leading that security review and his role in that has been controversial. They include hiring more than  Capitol Police officers, adding more fencing and infrastructure, and setting up a quick reaction force to be on duty around the clock. That force alone could cost up to $ million a year. Capitol Police warned of a possible plot to breach the Capitol today, March th, until , March th, was our country's inaugural day. And the east is rising and the west is declining, that from Chinese leader Xi Jinping. Emboldened, as he puts the pandemic behind him, and looks to prove to the world that keeping him in power indefinitely will lead to the end of poverty and the world dominance of China. Here's Secretary of State Antony Blinken laying out the path forward. 
 Our relationship with China will be competitive when it should be, collaborative when it can be, and adversarial when it must be. The common denominator is the need to engage China from a position of strength. 
 OK. Gordon Chang joins me now, Author of "The Great US-China Tech War." Gordon, always good to see thanks for being here today. What do you think of the way that our new Secretary of State Blinken characterized his approach to China?  Well, that approach has really dominated thinking and administration's liberals and conservatives, Republicans and Democrats since the end of the Cold War. But the problem is, you can't really have a collaborative relationship with a country that has declared a "people's war" on us, and that's China. They did that in May of . So while it sounds nice, it just didn't work in practice.  You know, we've watched sort of the movement of the way President Biden talks about a China. Here's a couple of quotes that I think are very familiar to people, but I just want to get your big picture thought given that we now have this statement from the Secretary of State 
 China is going to eat our lunch. Come on, man. No, they're not going to -- if we don't move they're going to get our lunch. 
 A bit of a progression there. What do you think about the President's attitude about China?  Well, he has the attitude which is decades old. That United States can get along with China, that it's actually in our interest to help the Communist Party strengthen itself. And we saw his comments at the CNN Town Hall in the answers to that question from Anderson Cooper about crimes against humanity, human rights. Biden has a view that is just not consistent with what China's doing today, they're committing atrocities. And that hasn't really penetrated the president.  You know, about that, with regard to Hong Kong, there's a --- this was a very big statement from President Xi, speaking to the leadership in China to an annual event, I believe. How did -- what was your read on what he was saying in terms of how quickly he wants to accelerate this program in China and also to keep Hong Kong in check?  Well, it sounds like he believes that China is strong, but actually, I think he's seeing a closing window of opportunity to achieve historic objectives. Because he realizes that you've got -- he's got a problem with his economy, but he's more important got a problem with demography. China right now is four times, more than four times more populous than the United States. By the end of this century, it's probably going to be less populous than the US. That's the most dramatic collapse in demography in history, absent war or disease. And if Beijing doesn't achieve its objectives in the next, let's say, five years, it has no hope of catching up and surpassing us.  The Secretary of Defense making some comments at the Air Force. He said, China is our number one pacing challenge, what does that mean to you?  I think I heard what you said. Basically, China is our main adversary, and countries like Russia, Iran, North Korea, they are only able to challenge the international system because China gives them strength. So really, this is a China issue. It's not an Iran issue or a Russia issue. It's basically one that's centered in Beijing, because China is extremely hostile to the United States inherently hostile in the nature of that regime.  Gordon, thank you very much. We'll speak again, very important story. Good to see you today. eBay, now jumping on the canceled culture bandwagon, expected to delist banned books by Dr. Seuss. Dr. Ben Carson delivers his own spin on the classic "Cat in the Hat" coming up next. 
 And then something went bump, how that bump made us jump. We look then we saw him step on the mat. We looked and we saw him the cat in the hat. 
 Of all the places Dr. Seuss will go or maybe won't go after canceled culture takes a big bite out of his legacy. Online retailer eBay is now telling the Wall Street Journal that they are currently removing the six books that were pulled by the Dr. Seuss Enterprises to prevent future resale. Children's books are now dominating Amazon's bestseller lists flying up the list nine of the top  are all by Dr. Seuss, so you see how that works. Joining me now is Dr. Ben Carson, the former Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and founder and chairman of the American Cornerstone Institute. Dr. Carson, always good to see you. Thank you for being here today.  Thank you, Martha.  So, I understand that you want to express your feelings on this in poetry and I invite you to do so with your poem that you wrote about this now.  Well, very good. I do not like to cancel books I do not lock how that looks. I do not like it here nor there. I do not like it anywhere. I do not like it in the store. I do not want it anymore. I do think it's time passed, no longer to have thought a crime. I do hope one day to see across my country  books used to read and learn, instead of set ablaze to burn. Our heritage for all to share, little patriots everywhere. Our nation's story rich and vast, our true history taught in class, a special place for all to be a place known for its liberty. You know, those are the kinds of things that Dr. Seuss did. He encouraged people. He made people believe that everybody was equal. And, you know, it's appropriate that we're talking about children's books because as a society, we're acting like children, like a child who's in charge who doesn't like peas. So he says, let's ban peas. Anybody eating peas or growing peas shall be killed. You know, that's childish thinking. That's what we're doing right now and it's absolutely absurd. And I think the rest of the world is having a good belly laugh. And it's time for us to mature to grow up to recognize. You know, America was the beacon of liberty. It was the place where people came so that they could express themselves, so they could believe what they want to believe, so they could have religious freedom. It was a place where we believe that our liberties and freedoms came from God and not from government. And, you know, the socialists believe that everything comes from government. We can't abide it.  You know, I think when you look back at books being banned, you'll find that in, throughout history, you don't want to be on the side of the folks that were doing that. It didn't really turn out very well in most cases. I remember when, you know, the discussion was "To Kill a Mockingbird," and classics, which we should always be taught in the context of the time in which they were written and published. You know, I was actually heartened to see that the New York Public Library says that they're going to keep all of their Dr. Seuss books in publication and in circulation, I should say, at the library. But the fact that that encourages us, you know, just says something about where we are right now. And I agree with you that other countries must look at this. And I know Europe's looking at this and saying, well, too far, folks. Relax.  Well, I hope people will stop thinking about this as a political issue. It's not a political issue. This is about freedom in America. And that's what we're dealing with right now. We will determine what happens to our children and our grandchildren. Will they have a country where they can grow up and be free and where they can live up to their potential? Or will they have somebody trying to control every aspect of their life, including what they can say and what they cannot say. This is poison in our system.  Yes. It takes people pushing back and standing up. The President could have done that the other day, you know what, we're going to keep Dr. Seuss around, you know, you should teach it in context, or say anything as a parent that you want to say when you read any of these books, but give people the freedom to do so. Dr. Carson, thank you. Thanks for the poem. Thank you for being here.  All right. Thank you, Martha.  When you write another one, let us know. Come back.  OK.  All right. So from New York to the Royal Palace, two really big scandals that are heating up right now. And the first on camera interview from one of Governor Cuomo accusers, so this digs deeper as well. Stick around, next. 
 Do you believe that he was propositioning?  Yes.  For what?  Sex. 
 Two big and very different scandals unfolding at this hour. In moments, we go live to Los Angeles as Buckingham Palace now says that it is investigating the claims against Meghan Markle. But first to New York where the lawyer for one of Governor Andrew Cuomo's accusers is poking holes in Cuomo's partial mea culpa. Correspondent Bryan Llenas live in Brooklyn for us. Hi, Bryan.  Martha, Cuomo's former aide Charlotte Bennett is now revealing new details about her sexual harassment allegations against her former boss. You know, she says that he made inappropriate sexual remarks. And tonight, she's detailing some of these things. She says that she talks about the culture of working in the Cuomo administration. She says she's spoken with other women who worked for him who've had similar experiences as hers. She claims the governor was grooming her Cuomo said he was lonely and asked her shocking questions about her sex life. 
 Do you believe that he was propositioning?  Yes.  For what?  Sex. 
 Yesterday, Governor Cuomo address the fact that Bennett says that the governor made her, well, she says made her highly uncomfortable. Listen. 
 I didn't know I was making her uncomfortable at the time. I feel badly that I did. 
 Yes. But Bennett's lawyer says Cuomo did know what he was doing at the time, "My client, Charlotte Bennett, reported his sexually harassing behavior immediately to his Chief of Staff and Chief Counsel. We are confident that they made him aware of her complaint." Cuomos's office says Bennett's complaint was handled in accordance with the law, but high ranking New York State Democratic Senator Liz Krueger doesn't think so telling Politico, I do not believe he followed his own policies or the law. Cuomo yesterday in the press conference said that he did take sexual harassment training. He's also asking New Yorkers to really withhold their judgment and so the AG's office finishes the independent investigation. Martha.  Bryan, thank you very much. Now to Buckingham Palace where they say they will investigate the claims that Meghan Markle bullied two personal assistants so terribly that they quit. Megan and Prince Harry will reportedly not be involved in that investigation. Chief Correspondent Jonathan Hunt with the latest for us from their new home in Los Angeles. Hey, Jonathan.  Hey Martha. The bullying allegations first published in The Times of London. A former member of Meghan and Harry staff claiming Meghan's behavior left assistant shaking and in tears, and in two cases quitting. Buckingham Palace officials said they were "very concerned" and would look into the allegations. And added quote, "The royal household has had a dignity at work policy in place for a number of years and does not and will not tolerate bullying or harassment in the workplace." Meghan and Harry now effectively estranged from the royal family sat for an interview recently with Oprah Winfrey, it will air on Sunday. In a promo clip, Meghan appeared to fire a warning shot at the palace or the firm, as insiders call it. 
 I don't know how they could expect that after all of this time, we would still just be silent if there is an active role that the firm is playing in perpetuating falsehoods about us. 
 So what are the Brits make of it all. For that as always, we turned to my mom who wasn't holding back today talking about the bullying claims and saying, "I am not at all surprised because Meghan has shown herself to be a spiteful person and I am disgusted with her." It is well past  o'clock in the English countryside where mom is sitting, so she may be a couple of glasses in. But having said that, Martha, she's also a pretty good judge of character.  She sounds like an excellent judge of character. Jonathan, thank you very much for that frontline reporting from mommy. We appreciate it. Thank you, Jonathan.  Anytime. . "Your World with ," though, starts right now. Have a great evening, everybody. We'll see you tomorrow. 
The Democratic-controlled Congress is one step closer to passing COVID relief, delivering on President Biden's top campaign promise. 
  Unity. Unity. Unity. That's how we got this done. 
  Passed. 
  So what's in the package for struggling Americans, schools, and businesses? 
  Everything in this package is designed to relieve the suffering and to meet the most urgent needs of the nation. 
  While Republicans question whether this is emergency relief or a Democratic wish list. 
  The most progressive domestic legislation in a generation. 
  We'll talk with Democratic Senator Joe Manchin who has staked out a position as the most powerful member of Congress. 
Then -- 
  It is now time to open Texas  percent. 
  Governors in both parties and pandemic lockdowns and the president pushes back. 
  The last thing we need is Neanderthal thinking. 
  We'll ask Arkansas Governor Asa Hutchinson about starting to lift restrictions in his state and former CDC Director Tom Frieden about whether some states are moving too soon. 
Plus, growing calls to impeach New York's governor over his handling of COVID nursing home deaths and accusations of sexual harassment. We'll ask our Sunday panel whether Cuomo will survive the twin scandal. 
And our Power Player of the Week, the head of Peloton on how the pandemic gave his bikes a big push. 
All, right now, on "FOX News Sunday."  
  And hello again from FOX News in Washington. 
President Biden's push for his $. trillion COVID relief package is now in the home stretch after the Senate approved the measure Saturday in a straight party line - vote. The legislation includes funding for vaccine supplies and distribution, along with a new round of stimulus for families, businesses, and state and local governments. 
Democrats hope to get the bill through the House and put it on the president's desk before some benefits expire a week from today. 
In a moment, we'll speak with West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin who voted for the bill after reaching a deal late Friday over unemployment aid. 
But first, let's bring in Mike Emanuel on Capitol Hill with what happens next. 
  It's a good day today. 
  President Biden is a step away from a major legislative accomplishment, but recognizes he must keep his fellow Democrats together as it heads back to the House. 
  As Bernie Sanders said, this is the most progressive bill he'd ever seen pass in history since he's been here. 
  The legislation is so large, it's $. trillion in spending is nearly one-tenth of the U.S. economy. 
  Nobody said passing one of the largest, perhaps the most significant bill to help the poor and working people in decades was going to be easy. 
  And it wasn't. It took more than  hours to pass the legislation in the Senate and last-minute negotiations to get West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin on board. Now $ in enhanced on employment benefits will be paid through Labor Day. 
Republicans unanimously rejected the massive funding package but could not stop it. 
  The Senate has never spent $ trillion in a more haphazard way or through a less rigorous process. 
  The House is expected to take up this legislation on Tuesday. Democrats there can only lose four votes and still pass it. So, leadership will seek to move swiftly to send it to the president's desk for his signature -- . 
  Mike Emanuel reporting from Capitol Hill -- Mike, thanks for that. 
And joining us now, West Virginia Senator Joe Manchin, who's become the key swing vote in Congress. 
Senator, welcome back to "FOX News Sunday." 
  Hey, . It's always good to be with you. Thank you for having me. 
  On Friday, you held up this COVID relief package for the better part of ten hours over a dispute on unemployment benefits. 
Were you really prepared to tank this bill, President Biden's top legislative priority, if you didn't get what you wanted? 
  Absolutely not. That's not how negotiations should go and that should never be the intent of anybody. There was nothing that I wanted more than to have a balanced bill. And that is something that came into it at the last minute. I thought it was something that more than what we ever agreed on or intended. 
And when they talk about this being strictly a Democrat bill and no bipartisan, I worked with my colleagues and my friends on the Republican side for the last month all the way through. A lot of the things I was able to get into that bill and target the bill the way we talked about came because of negotiations at talks with my Republican and Democratic colleagues. 
So when that happened, , I just said hold on, if we stay at $ for unemployment, it's seamless, no one misses a paycheck, not at all, and basically, we were doing so much more with child tax credits, we were helping every family and there's got to be a balance and I'm in that modern middle I guess, it's not real crowded, , I can assure you, but we just try to make it all come to fruition, and it did, and that's the way negotiations should go. 
  Senator, if -- Senator, if you had all this Republican input into the bill, if you've been talking to them for a month, why didn't any of your Republican colleagues vote for it? Was it just pure politics? 
  No, it wasn't just my politics or Democrat politics. It was maybe a little bit more than what they thought they could have done on the amount of money that was going in investing. What we were able to target, we strung it out. 
We didn't just throw it all at one time, so we were able to say, okay, first time in history, now a little town or community or county, wherever it be in America, can have some control of their destiny fixing water and sewer, Internet service. It's going to go out to  on that, the tranches of money going out helping people long term, fixing the school systems, making them safe, all the things. 
There might have been more than what they thought was needed at this time, but truly, they had input with me and they knew that, and we worked together, Democrats and Republicans, until the final passage and then it was  my -- more than what maybe they could have voted and supported, but they did have input, I can assure you. 
  But let's talk about the bill and this question of the amount of aid that you gave. The Nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office came out with an estimate that the economy was down only $ billion to $ billion because of the pandemic, and yet this bill gives $. trillion, triple almost what the CBO says you really need. 
That raises the question, one, is this bill going to overheat the economy and create inflation? And two, as you point out, it isn't all just this year, it's out four, five, some of the money doesn't get spent until . So, is this really COVID relief or is this a Democratic wish list? 
  No. COVID relief is more than just the vaccines. The vaccine is the most urgent thing we can do. Keeping people able to stay in their homes is absolutely as urgent as anything else we do, and we did all of that. 
COVID relief means are you going to be able to move on, have the economy move on as strong as you want to, not have a lapse in that? That's why we were able to target it and move out some. I'm hoping economists look at that too. 
President Biden was concerned because he was there in , I was not. I was still governor at that time. When they do the Recovery Act and they thought they didn't do it quick enough. 
I basically reminded people, that was a financial collapse, this is a health care pandemic. It's much different. We will come out of this. 
I want to make sure the workforce is ever ready to go too, , and that's why we wanted to make sure that we didn't basically just throw every thing at one time. We're going to make sure that we're recovering in  also so we don't have a lapse or a relapse. 
  But what about this argument that the economy is only down $ billion only, but it's down $ billion and you're spending $. trillion, and that you may end up overheating the economy and causing inflation, sir? 
  Well, I hope we don't, I don't think we will because, again, as I said, we spread it out. We didn't throw  it all at one time. 
They're saying we're going to spend $. trillion on top of what we've already spent in his one year, there might be some concerns about that, or there should be, I'm sure. I'm concerned now more about the debt that we're accumulating and we've been accumulating through all different types of different administrations. 
It's time to get our financial house in order, I'm in that modern -- middle and common sense is not real common sometimes in Washington but we can come together, we have too. So, we're watching this very carefully but I can assure you, we have helped every segment of society right now, more so than ever before with this piece of targeted legislation, and I'm going to be monitoring and watching as close as long as my other friends will too. 
  You kept talking about the moderate middle, do you like being the most powerful member of Congress, the swing vote in a / Senate? Do you like that, sir? 
  No, I do not, and I did not lobby for this, did not seek it out. The bottom line is I am who I am and I'm always been that person, to try to find the middle of common sense. 
My state of West Virginia expects that. They know me that -- they know me as that. They're good people, and we just try to do things in a rational, common sense way. 
So I've said this about power, . I've seen people who have had power that have abused it, I've seen people that sought power that destroyed themselves trying to get it and I've seen people that seize the moment. 
If I can seize this moment and start healing our country, helping our president bring our country together, listening to all sides and making a decision that doesn't intend to harm anybody and don't play the tribal politics. It's just not who I am. 
And I can't -- I am who I am, I'm not going to change, and I think that hopefully people understand that and they give me the flexibility and understand that, and I appreciate that. I know it's difficult for some people to understand. 
This is who I am. I'm just Joe from West Virginia. 
  Well, let's talk about just Joe, because you have staked out this position and you were doing it in November right after the election. I want to put up some of the positions you've taken, breaking with your party. 
You said early on, you would not be the th Democrat to end the filibuster. You'd not be the th Democrat to pack the Supreme Court. And so far, whether it's the $ minimum wage or Neera Tanden's nomination, you've broken with your party. 
You just put up -- you just said the quote I was going to put it up on the screen because you said it before about power and what it can do to people. 
 I have watched people destroyed -- watched power destroyed people, good people because they abused it. 
Look, I love talking to you, Senator, but you are on four Sunday shows today, and the question I have is, are you enjoying your position of power may be a little too much? 
  I sure hope not. Oh, my goodness. I would be -- that would be horrible. That's not, no. 
I want to make sure people understand, I am in that common sense middle, that's who I am. It happened to come down to /, this doesn't happen that often in our political posturing or governing, and I hope it doesn't come around again for a long time. 
We need to find a way to work together. That's all I'm trying to do. I'm not taking advantage of any moment at all, but if I can seize the moment and make you understand, hold on, we're not going to just blow things up, we're not going to destroy the Senate the Founding Fathers decided would be the most deliberate body unusual for any other form of government in the world and the history has ever known. 
Seize the moment and fix what has gone wrong. Why do we go so right and so left? We don't run our lives from the extreme. You always try to find that moderate middle to make decisions, to run your life, to enjoy your family, to make sure that you're able to prosper and move forward. 
You can't do that from the extremes, that's all and now we've pushed apart. Maybe social media, I don't know what's doing it but when people can talk about people without looking them in the eye, shaking their hand and giving them their word and that's who you are and stick with that, I don't know, maybe it's old-fashioned West Virginia. It's the way I was raised, . 
  So, Senator, let me ask you one last question because going forward, one of the things that you staked out very early on, I've only got about two minutes here --  
  OK. 
  -- is that you would not end the filibuster. 
The question I have is, would you consider if the Republicans just won't go along with anything, reforming the filibuster? For instance, the filibuster doesn't apply now to either budget rules, budget -- that's why you had this reconciliation, budget issues, or to nominations. 
Would you consider extending exemptions to other issues? Or would you consider going back to the old filibuster, sort of like Mr. Smith goes to Washington and Jimmy Stewart --  
  Yeah. 
  -- where you want to filibuster, it's not an automatic  votes. You've got to stay on the Senate floor and keep talking. 
  The filibuster should be painful. It really should be painful. And we have -- we've made it more comfortable over the years, not intentionally, may it just evolved into that. Maybe it has to be more painful. Maybe you have to stand there. There's things we can talk about. 
But, , whenever you take away in the Senate the ability for the minority, however it may be, Democrats or Republicans to have input, why do have two senators in Rhode Island and two senators in New York or California? Why is there one body that treats everyone, hopefully, the ability to intervene, the ability to be involved, the ability to represent no matter how large or small? 
That's so the big person doesn't take advantage of a smaller person or a person in not just stature but in their position. That's what this is all about. And I'm going to fight for that. 
  But just to be -- but just to be clear, with  seconds left --  
  Sure. 
  -- you would consider making it harder to invoke the filibuster so that you just don't automatically have  votes that you need for any legislation? 
  I'd make it harder to get rid of the filibuster. I'm supporting the filibuster. I'm going to continue to support the filibuster. 
I think it defines who we are as a Senate. I'll make it harder to get rid of it but it should be painful if you want to use it. You should make sure the place works to where, okay, I want to work with you, how can we do this, how do we move forward? 
My Republicans are my friends. They're not my enemies. And my Democrats is my colleagues, they're not my enemy either. That's my caucus. 
Together, we've got to make this place work and it should be harder to invoke pain. It should be painful for us, don't make it painful for the other side. 
  Senator Manchin, thank you. Thanks for your time after a very busy few days, and we'll be watching the bill's progress on the Hill this week. 
  Thank you, . It's a great piece of legislation. It's going to help Americans for a long time. 
  Thank again -- thanks to you again. 
Up next, some states are bucking the recommendations of public health officials and lifting COVID restrictions. We'll talk with one of those governors when we come right back. 
  It's been a year since states started shutting down businesses, limiting gatherings and mandating masks and now, several states have announced those days are coming to an end. 
Joining us from Little Rock, Arkansas Republican Asa Hutchinson, vice chair of the National Governors Association and, Governor, welcome back to Fox News Sunday. 
  Great to be with you, . 
  Last month, you changed your public health state directives to guidelines, changed them in effect from mandatory to optional so now restaurants, bars, gyms, and other businesses in Arkansas can be open even to  percent capacity. Why did you do that, sir? 
  Well, you emphasized the key point, and that is that it's been a year. And during the course of the last year, we've educated the public as to what's required on public health. Our businesses have taken the right measures in place. We've had a mask mandate in place and there's just a limit as to how much the restrictions can be placed on business and for how long. They've struggled, they've suffered, and so we wanted to give more flexibility. 
It's not the immediate ending of everything. We still have our guidelines in place and actually there is an incentive to keep control of the facilities because that gives you business tort liability immunity if you follow some of those guidelines, and so we're not having a cliff  here. 
We keep the emergency in place, our mask mandate is in place until the end of the month and I asked our public health folks to give me specific criteria as to when we can lift that and we agreed upon the criteria that the public knows that we can lift that mask mandate, hospitalization's down, vaccines going out, testing is in place, positivity rate down. 
  So I want to pick up on that, because while you have relaxed the opening of businesses, you are not ending the mask mandate until the end of this month and then only if the state stays under current COVID spreads -- COVID numbers. 
Why didn't you go along with the governors of your neighboring states, of Texas and Mississippi, which are ending the mask mandate right now? 
  Well, this just reflects that governors can do it different ways. Flexibility, I think, is the model of our states. But for me and Arkansas, I wanted to set a goal and give people hope that we can end the mask mandate if we get to these -- this place and where we feel more comfortable that our hospitalizations are still down, and so we wanted an off-ramp, we didn't want a cliff. I wanted an off-ramp. 
So we set our goals and expectations, the public knows exactly what we have to do to lift that mandate. Of course, it would be converted to a guideline and I think masks are going to be with us for some time, but at some point, we have to rely upon common sense and good judgment versus mandates and, particularly, when it comes to our businesses. They want to be able to do the right thing with their patrons and customers, but they want to be able to have some flexibility and that's critically important and that's we're giving them, hope and flexibility. 
  Governor, in this plan, which does make it no longer mandatory, in terms of the businesses to reopen  percent, you're going against the guidance of President Biden and his top public health officials. I want you to take a look at what they said this week. 
  The last thing we need is Neanderthal thinking that in the meantime everything is fine, take off your mask, forget it. It still matters. 
  It really is quite risky to completely remove all of the public health measures and just act like there's no virus in the community when we know it is at an unacceptably high level. 
  Governor, why do you think that you know better than the experts? 
  Well, of course, if you relied simply upon strict public health guidelines, they would love to have a shelter in place for a year, which we cannot do as a society, and so you have to balance what our public health dictates with the reality that we have to move, we have to get back to school. 
And President Biden is a perfect example of this. You know, he is leading by encouraging people to take the virus seriously, but at the same time, he's saying vigorously, let's open our schools. Well, there's risks to opening the schools, but it's a risk that is very, very important because we need to have in-classroom instruction. 
And I'm proud of my state, of Arkansas, that we went back to school last August and September with in-classroom instruction and then the president says, we need to vaccinate all the teachers. Well, we did that. We moved them up on our priority list early on. And so that's important for governors to be able to lead their state. It's -- and I don't think it's fair to say it's Neanderthal-type thinking. 
The history of our country from the Boston Tea Party is freedom, protesting against over taxation, government control, and so it's pretty natural to have a sensitivity to freedom-loving Americans that say, we'll do the right thing, we know what to do, just give us our freedom back and lift some of these mandates. 
That's the nature of America and I understand that. That's not caveman thinking, that's common sense. 
  But let me just press one more time on this issue of public health. There's no question that Arkansas is in much better shape than you were during that big, terrible spike around the country in January but you're still not out of the woods. 
And I want to put up the latest numbers on the situation in Arkansas. The average of new cases in your state is  new cases per day. Hospitalizations, . And according to the CDC, Arkansas ranks th out of the  states in the number of COVID vaccinations per capita. 
Given all of that, Governor, is this the right time to take your foot off the brake? 
  It's a good question, and that's the reason we didn't end the emergency, that's the reason I have a ramp. If we see the cases spike up, if we see the hospitalizations go up, then we can reinstitute the mask mandate because it's a ramp, it goes until March st with specific guidelines. We can take the action that's needed. 
And so we're not out of the woods, but at the same time, the key is hospitalizations and because of improved therapeutics and because of the vaccines, because we have more people following guidelines and taking it seriously, we're in a pretty good position. If it goes the wrong direction, we can take the steps necessary. But people have to have hope. 
This has been a year and we have to give them hope that we can work our way out of this emergency. We've got a good balance and a good plan in Arkansas. 
  Finally, I want to get to this philosophical issue. I've only got about two minutes here, Governor. 
But you talk about freedom and I understand that and I understand people chafing at not being able to lead their own lives. But you know, we keep speed limits and we keep seat belt laws even though people clearly understand the benefits of both. 
Don't you worry that on the one hand yes, freedom, but on the other hand, this may change people -- when they get the word from the governor of the state, you know, you can go back  percent and within a few weeks you're going to be able to take off your masks, that it may change people's behavior? 
  We have to be careful about that, you're absolutely right and we don't want to send the wrong signals. But whenever you look at the necessity of these mandates and the business restrictions -- sure, we have seat belt laws. That can be a permanent thing. But I don't think you want to keep a business that put in an investment that they could be at  percent capacity and you hold them at  percent or  percent. You have to be able to give that flexibility in gyms, salons. 
And so lifting those restrictions, converting them to guidelines is a good balanced step that we can take. The mask mandate, people understand -- right now people can protect themselves. If you go out and people aren't wearing a mask, keep your distance from them, you wear a mask. If you have restaurants that are not following the guidelines, well go to a restaurant that is following guidelines. People can make good decisions. 
  Governor, thank you. Thanks for coming in today. It's always good to talk with you, sir. 
  Thank you, . Great to be with you today. 
  Up next, we'll get reaction to what some states are doing from the former head of the CDC, Dr. Tom Frieden joins us next. 
  Coming up, the Biden administration is taking heat for a surge of unaccompanied minors at the border. 
  We believe that the humane approach is to treat this kids with humanity and -- and insure that they have a safe place to be. 
 We'll ask our Sunday panel about the fallout from the president's immigration policies.  
 As states lift restrictions a year into the pandemic lockdowns, are some of them moving too quickly? 
Joining us now, Dr. Tom Frieden, former director of the Centers for Disease Control. 
Doctor, you just heard Governor Hutchinson talk about lifting mandatory restrictions in his state. You see with the governors of Texas and Mississippi are doing, both on restrictions for businesses and they are also lifting the mask mandates this week. 
Your reaction to all of that. 
 Well, first off, I think, , it is true, we are really sick and tired of this virus. And there's a lot of good news coming. More vaccines, more people getting vaccines, more options for vaccines and really good data that vaccination is making a big difference. So I would make a big distinction between reopening the economy and lifting mask mandates. One of them you could debate. The other is simply wrong. 
 Well, explain that a little bit. 
 Sure. 
 Clearly you think that opening businesses is -- is debatable but - - but lifting the mask mandates is flat wrong? 
 That's right. And -- and this is the way to think about it. There are a lot of harms to closing businesses, not just economic harms, educational harms when it comes to schools, personal hardship, health harms from people not having work. So it's really important to get our economy open again as safely as possible. 
Now, I wouldn't necessarily open everything. For example, an indoor stadium with people coming from all over, that's a really bad idea. 
On the other hand, masks, you know, the only freedom a mask inhibits is the freedom of the virus to spread and kill people. Masks work. Mask mandates work. And lifting mask mandates is very dangerous, particularly with the risk of more dangerous variants emerging and spreading. 
 But let's talk about this, because this isn't just Mississippi and Texas. There's a push in this area across the country. I'm going to put up two maps for you to take a look at, Doctor. The first one is, this week,  states, all run by Republican governors across the south and the Midwest and some of the Rocky Mountains states,  states all run by Republican governors will either have lifted mask mandates or never had them. And all  states, all  run by Republican and Democratic governors, will be either mostly or partly open for business, and some of them at  percent capacity. 
Is that -- clearly on the masks you think it's too much too soon. On the opening businesses, are you concerned that that's moving too fast, particularly  percent capacity in -- in gyms and restaurants and bars? 
 Well, interestingly, , those two things are related. If you keep a mask mandate in place, you'll be able to open more and be more likely to keep it open without risk to people, not just to other customers, but the workers there as well. 
I do worry about restaurants and bars where people may be speaking loudly without masks on. And you really do have to focus -- you know, the governor said, well, if you don't want to go into a restaurant where people aren't wearing masks, you can go to a different restaurant, not if you're the waiter. If you're the waiter, yes, you can wear a mask but you're must safer if the customers wear a mask when they're not eating, obviously, and you wear a mask. 
So mask mandates are a way of preserving our health and our economy. 
 Doctor, as we said in -- in the last segment, President Biden is coming down pretty hard on -- on these governors who are -- are relaxing restrictions. His famous phrase this week "Neanderthal thinking." But the day after Greg Abbott, the governor of Texas, noted that with a lot of people right now coming across the border illegally into this country, that  people who had been released in Brownsville, Texas, had tested positive for the COVID virus and Governor Abbott continued on with this. 
Take a look. 
 The Biden administration was exposing Texans to COVID. That is a Neanderthal-type approach to dealing with the COVID situation. 
 Doctor, is this the right time to be relaxing immigration restrictions and allowing more people to come across the border and more people to be released into the country when you're in the midst of a public health crisis? 
 Well, let's get the numbers straight here. The United States has more than , cases a day diagnosed and probably two or three times that many actually occurring every day. The vast majority, . percent of the infections spread in the U.S. arise in the U.S. Let's focus on getting our house in order. And we can do that by masking up, doubling down on protection protocols, vaccinating the moment it's your turn. And as we do that, , over the next few months, we will get to a much safer situation, we will get to a new normal. 
But I think masks are going to be a part of that normal for many months to come. That's the sensible thing to do, to get our kids back in school, people back to work, and our economy moving again. 
 But I -- you talk about the fact that we're headed in the right direction. I want to put up some video on the screen because, as you well know, this is spring break time and there are a lot of young people who are flocking to Florida, congregating on beaches. This is one of the more sedate -- ah, this is a bitter picture of people in bars at spring break. 
Does that worry you? Is this your worst nightmare? 
 It does worry me. 
, what we'd seen every time there's been a holiday with people traveling and mixing, we've seen a big surge in cases after. Right now the -- the main question that we have to know is, is there going to be a fourth surge in this country or not? We've had three deadly surges. Will we have a fourth? And the answer to that -- the answer to that is something we can control by masking up and avoiding sharing indoor air with people not in your household. 
 Dr. Frieden, thank you. Thanks for joining us. Please come back, sir. 
 Thank you. 
 Up next, calls for impeachment grow over New York Governor Andrew Cuomo's nursing home scandal and allegations of sexual harassment. Can he survive? We'll ask our Sunday group. 
That's next.   
 It was unintentional and I truly and deeply apologize for it. 
 I thought, he's trying to sleep with me. The governor is trying to sleep with me. And I'm deeply uncomfortable and I have to get out of this room as soon as possible. 
 New York Governor Andrew Cuomo responding to allegations of sexual harassment and Charlotte Bennett, who is one of now four women who accuse Cuomo of inappropriate behavior as a third former aide came forward late yesterday. 
And it's time now force our Sunday group. Marc Short, former chief of staff to Vice President Mike Pace , Julie Pace, Washington bureau chief for the Associated Press, and Fox News political analyst Juan Williams. 
Well, Governor Cuomo -- let's put up on the screen all of the problems he faces because it is not just these allegations of sexual harassment now from four women. He also faces federal and state investigations of whether his office covered up the number of nursing home residents who died of COVID and the state legislature just voted to strip Cuomo of emergency powers in the pandemic. 
Julie, what are you hearing from top Democrats, both in Washington and in New York, about Cuomo and all of his problems? 
 Well, Cuomo doesn't have a lot of allies among Democrats right now, not a lot of people rallying around him to support him in this moment. But you also aren't seeing a lot of Democrats, with a couple of exceptions, calling for his resignation. The party line at the moment is basically, let's let this independent investigation of these sexual misconduct allegations move forward. We feel that these are inappropriate actions on the part of the governor, but we want to see what comes out of this investigation. 
I do think that this is Democrats and society at large grappling with where the line is right now. What is an action that is so inappropriate, that is so egregious that a public official can no longer stay in office. 
But I do think to your -- to your opening here, I think it's important to note that Cuomo is not just facing these sexual misconduct allegations. The -- the allegations of cooking the books essentially on nursing home deaths is really serious and I think that gets to the heart of just his overall leadership of the -- of the state of New York through this pandemic and I think you're going to increasingly see a lot of attention focused in that direction as well. 
 Marc, you spend enough time in Washington, and I -- I hate to be cynical about it, you get a pretty good sense of how these scandals are going to play out and whether the person at the center of them is going to survive or not. 
What's your sense of this scandal -- actually two scandals? 
 Yes, well, , I think that the sexual harassment allegations are serious and should be investigated. But probably on the -- on the nursing home, a little more knowledge because of our relationship during -- managing the crisis. And I think that the -- the -- the lack of leadership is really shocking here and I think the cover-up is very serious. 
The reality is that Governor Cuomo sent sick COVID patients back into nursing homes and infected other people and lives were lost because of those decisions. It's hard to think of any state that received more federal assistance during COVID than New York from the Trump-Pence administration. Whether or not that was ventilators or refurbishing the stockpiles, it was also basically the federal government creating a hospital in the Javits Center, sending the USS Comfort up to New York to be in the harbor for additional beds. There were all sorts of options he had. He made a wrong decision and now there are allegation he actually covered up and lied about the number of COVID deaths that actually occurred within the nursing homes because of his decisions. 
Those are incredibly serious allegations and I -- I think he's on a very tenuous standing. 
 Juan, and I think Marc Short is a pretty good example of that, Democrats are having a field day with the problems that Cuomo is having. First of all, they say liberals were far too slow to recognize that Cuomo made a serious mistake when he issued this directive that seniors who were in nursing -- or were in hospitals should be sent back to nursing homes. And then there's the whole question of cooking the books. And they also note the fact that, you know, it wasn't so long ago that liberals were saying, you know, if a woman accuser comes forward -- they certainly said this about Brett Kavanaugh, she must be believed. Now they're a little slower to say that, maybe a lot slower to say it when it comes to Andrew Cuomo. 
 Well, I think on the nursing home scandal, I think you would know that the New York Assembly, state senator as well, they've limited Governor Cuomo's powers right now with regard to how the pandemic is handled. So they're raining him in. They're holding him to a higher level of accountability. 
And, by the way, I think that's just bad decision-making. I don't know that there's anything illegal. Clearly people died and there's a terrible price for all families who lost a loved one to pay, but it was a decision. So, I mean, I'm still curious as to what exactly anyone could say that was done illegally. 
But on the sexual-harassment side, you have the New York attorney general, a Democrat, by the way, who is now going to have an independent investigation with subpoena power for documents and for witnesses, . I think the pressure for that independent probe, by the way, came from both senators, both Democrats. It also came from New York's mayor, Bill de Blasio, who is no friend to Governor Cuomo and, again, members of the state assembly and state senate. 
So, you're seeing a lot of Democrats who I think are resistant to the idea of a fourth term for Governor Cuomo and who see him as a bully and who's run them over, Democrats I'm talking about, who are saying, you know, maybe not now. I would also add that if you look at the latest Quinnipiac poll done this week after both scandals had emerged, most New Yorkers are not calling on him to resign. They don't want him to run again, but they're not calling on him to resign right now. 
So I think we have to keep all this in mind and also, I would say, you know, I don't see any independent investigation of Donald Trump and he faced far more serious charges of sexual assault, you know, even more than that, and I don't see those kinds of calls coming from Republicans. 
 Well, I -- I -- yes, but on the other hand I don't know that we could say that Donald Trump went uninvestigated over the course of his four years in the presidency between the special counsel and two impeachments. 
Anyway, let's move on to this quite serious question about this surge of unaccompanied minors across the border. 
The Biden administration seems determined to kind of play it down. 
Take a look at this exchange this week. 
 Do you believe that right now there's a crisis of the border? 
 I think that the -- the answer is no. I think there is a challenge at the border that we are managing and we have our resources dedicated to -- to managing it. 
 Julie, the Department of Homeland Security put out a report this week. It wasn't put out to the republic, but it was leaked, that they are now projecting , unaccompanied minors that are going to cross the border this year, way over what we thought was a very serious surge in . 
Is that sustainable for the -- for the Biden White House to say, well, it's not a crisis, it's a challenge, we're managing it, and -- and, more importantly, do they really have a plan to get this under control? 
 Well, they don't have a plan at the moment to get this under control. We do know that the White House is dispatching some officials to the border to try to see this situation firsthand. But, right now, they're caught in this situation where they are saying that the policy steps that we've seen Biden take on emigration, essentially rolling back a lot of the Trump administration's deterrence policies should not be read by migrants as an open invitation. Do not mass at the border. This does not mean you can get across easily. 
But for all of their talk about that, all of their messaging on it, that's not the message that is actually being received by a lot of migrants and so you do have this situation where people are increasingly coming to the border, families with young children do feel like this is a moment where they can get into the United States. They do feel like there's going to be a more receptive policy from the Biden administration. 
So this is the challenge that the White House has. If they don't think that their policy actually is an open invitation, then they have to signal that more clearly because that is -- that is, obviously, not the way it is being interpreted at the moment. 
 Marc, in its zeal to reverse Trump policies that they are happy to call inhumane, and that's one of the more -- the milder words being used at the White House podium these days, has the Biden White House gone too far? 
 , they're absolutely rolling out a red carpet for illegals to come into the United States. And the reality is, it is a humanitarian crisis. And, as you mentioned, in the last couple months alone, it's the -- the numbers of migrants reaching the border is three times what it was and it's only going up. It's going to get worse by the end of the spring. 
One of the things that the Trump-Pence administration did was a remain in Mexico policy that required migrants to stay in Mexico as their asylum claims were adjudicated. 
Now, by rescinding that, basically immigrants are about to walk freely into our country and the numbers are going to continue to increase. You're going to continue to see the using of human trafficking, of taking young kids, unaccompanied minors, to the borders is going to continue to increase. 
And just think about your last segment. The reality is right now if you're an American citizen and you have to -- you have to fly back in the United States, you're required to get tests, but if you walk up to our border as an illegal, you're allowed to come straight in without any COVID test. That's something that Governor Abbott pointed out in your last segment. 
 I've got about  seconds, Juan. Your thoughts about this? Isn't the Biden administration leaving itself open to a real problem at the border? 
 I think we do have a real problem at the border, . I think the biggest change in policy is halting the immediate expulsion of unaccompanied minors. And the -- the Biden administration is simply trying to have a more humane, rapid processing response. 
 But they got some problems at this point. We'll see what happens. 
Thank you, panel. See you next Sunday. 
Up next, our "Power Player of the Week," the man behind the fitness machine that's helping millions stay in shape during the pandemic lockdown. 
 During this last year of pandemic lockdown's, the popularity of one home fitness product has exploded. 
Here is our "Power Player of the Week." 
 I honestly pinch myself. I feel like I've got the best job and we're -- and we're creating one of the great brands of our generation, and we're having fun.    Three, two, let's ride. 
 John Foley's brand is Peloton, the exercise technology and media giant. 
 Where's your passion at right now? Show me with these last  seconds in that saddle. 
 That has brought studio fitness into millions of homes. 
 Got to go. Let's go. 
 Their stationary bikes are built with touchscreens so users can immerse themselves in live or on-demand classes. 
 Make this your best one right here. Come on! 
 During pandemic lockdown's, interest has gone through the roof. 
 How much of an increase in sales has there been over the last year? 
 Last quarter we've -- we announced  percent year on year growth. 
 And in the course made you a billionaire, correct? 
 On paper I am -- I am not hurting right now but we are -- we're not in it for the money. 
 Foley and his wife are fitness class addicts. They came up with the idea a decade ago. 
 In New York it was hard to get into those classes. We bring a community of supportive people, millions of people into the experience so it's not lonely, think Netflix but for fitness classes. 
 Members can compete with themselves and each other. 
 You can't  this Peloton. Get a little savage with it. 
 The instructor can see how you're doing and, you know, he or she might give you a shout out and say, C.  , this is your hundred class, everyone stand up and follow C.  up the hill. Let's go. Congratulations. 
 I've got to say, that sounds pretty cool. 
 We realized we needed to build an entire technology enabled ecosystem. 
 But in Peloton's early days, selling the concept was like its classes, an uphill climb. 
 For decades fitness equipment at home was all about a piece of hardware, but it was largely isolated and not fun. It became the cliche close hanger and dust collector in your basement, right? 
 Peloton eventually caught on, but not without some bumps in the road. 
 A Peloton. 
 The biggest, there now infamous ad. 
 First ride. I'm a little nervous but excited. 
 About a husband who gives his already-fit wife a bike for tmas. 
 Thank you. 
 Oh, boy. That was -- it was a frustrating moment for all of us. We're very passionate about what we do and it's not just about fitness, it's about a journey and about becoming a better you. And we tried to tell parts of that story in this TV spot and I think it was a bridge too far for people that were unfamiliar with what we do. 
 Come on Peloton. 
 Today, Peloton has over  million members. Foley hopes to make that  million. 
 We're going to welcome more members. We're going to hire more team members. We're trying to create the best place to work in the world, which is kind of fun. 
 And that bike over Foley's shoulder isn't a prop. 
 a.m. my wife and I are -- are often stumbling over each  ride. 
 Have you ever thought of getting two bikes for the Foley household so you don't have to fight each other? 
 I should. I should. 
 I think you could -- could get a deal. 
 You're right. 
  I'm . 
It's one of the largest stimulus packages in U.S. history, signed, sealed, and soon to be delivered as the nation marks one year of COVID. 
  This bill puts working people in this nation first. It's not hyperbole, it's a fact. 
  Big promises from President Biden as the rollout of his American Rescue Plan gets underway while Republicans who all voted against the package pushed back. 
  It was a multitrillion dollar Trojan horse full of bad, old liberal ideas. 
  Is the massive plan COVID relief or a liberal wish list? 
We'll ask Republican Senator Bill Cassidy and Democratic Senator  Murphy. 
Then -- 
  All adult Americans will be eligible to get a vaccine no later than May . 
  We'll talk with Dr. Anthony Fauci, the White House chief medical advisor, about what the country has been through this past year and the president's timeline for a return to normal. 
Plus, the calls for New York Governor Andrew Cuomo to resign near a tipping point. We'll ask our Sunday panel whether he's lost his ability to govern. 
And our "Power Player of the Week -- 
  I didn't think I'd get as famous as I have become. 
  The face of Shriners Hospital for Children grows up. 
All, right now, on "FOX News Sunday". 
  And hello again from FOX News in Washington. 
The processing of those $, direct payments has begun, with the first deposits hitting bank accounts this weekend. That stimulus part of President Biden's $. trillion rescue package aimed at getting the country back on its feet one year into the COVID pandemic. 
But Republicans call the plan a liberal, even a socialist, agenda. 
In a moment, we'll speak with senators from both sides, Republican Bill Cassidy of Louisiana, and Democrat  Murphy of Connecticut. 
But first, let's bring in David Spunt with the president this weekend in Wilmington, Delaware -- David. 
  , after weeks of trying to sell the plan to Republican numbers of Congress, the president will begin some heavy lifting as he heads out on the road to try and sell it to a divided America. 
  Help is here and we will not stop working for you. 
  From the White House to the American people, President Biden will make multiple trips this week to tout his plan that pumps billions into vaccine research, small business relief and education. On Tuesday, he'll visit the swing state of Pennsylvania. On Friday, he'll join the vice president in Georgia where two Democratic victories in the January runoffs helped seal the deal for COVID relief. 
  You had faith that Congress would pass this plan simply because it is the best thing for the American people. And you put in the work to make it happen. 
  But despite hopes for bipartisanship, not a single Republican voted for the package, insisting large portions have nothing to do with pandemic relief. 
  I think this is actually one of the worst pieces of legislation I've seen passed here in the time I've been in the Senate. 
  Those same Republicans united against relief plan are standing by for the president's other priorities, most notably infrastructure and immigration reform. 
  We must address this crisis at the border. It is spiraling out of control. 
  While Leader McCarthy is visiting the border tomorrow, there are no plans at least publicly yet for the president to do so, though the calls are growing for him to do so from both sides of the aisle -- . 
  David Spunt reporting from Delaware -- David, thank you. 
And joining us now, Republican Senator Bill Cassidy. 
Senator, welcome back to "FOX News Sunday". 
  Thank -- thank you for having me. 
  You voted, along with all of your Republican colleagues in the Senate, against the Democrats' $. trillion bill. According to the White  Less than  percent of President Biden's spending package is actually related to COVID relief. 
Senator, what's your basis for saying that? Less than  percent of the bill? 
  If you look at that which is related to the COVID -- by the way, I have to dispute a little bit David's presentation. The White House never reached out seriously to Republicans. We had no input into actually what transpired. 
Now, if you look at the things in that package, $ billion for education sounds great. CBO says the amount of money already allocated towards education is so much, it can't be spent this year. The money that is there for education will be spent in the out years. That's not related to COVID. If everybody is vaccinated by June, then it's clearly not related to COVID. 
There is $ billion for state and local government. California is getting $ billion and California has had record tax receipts, record tax receipts. That $ billion is not related to COVID. It's related to kind of helping a blue state. 
Those of the things I'm speaking of. 
  All right, but let's -- let's talk about other aspects of the package because as you well know, this pandemic is not just a public health crisis, it's also an economic crisis and according to the White House, stimulus payments will go to  percent of the adults in your state of Louisiana and  percent of the children. And the child tax credit will go to the families of  million kids in Louisiana. 
Senator, are you saying the people of your state don't need that money? 
  First, let me say Republicans offered an alternative which included that sort of money for the people who needed it. So, yes, economic health was needed for families as well as for businesses. We're on board with that. You would have had bipartisan support for that. 
But you know what it also includes? It includes $. billion to give stimulus checks to inmates. Now, inmates are already paid for by the taxpayer. They can't stimulate the economy unless they're purchasing contraband. 
So here we have $. billion stimulus checks going to inmates. I put up an amendment to strike that and it was -- it was unanimously opposed by Democrats. That's the sort of thing which should not be included. 
  But you would agree, hundreds of billions dollars go in economic stimulus to people and the businesses that have been hit hard by this pandemic? 
  Yes, I agree with that. Now let's put that in perspective. The Payroll Protection Plan money that was put in the December bill is adequate for the time being. This -- the additional money isn't so much for now, it is for going further out except there are some groups in which they specifically target those which are politically favored. 
And so the dollars are there now for the need which is there now. A lot of this money is actually for the out -- the out period. 
Let me say one more thing. The economy is recovering. It is estimated by CBO that our economy will grow at . percent this year without this latest package. And that the stimulus, additional stimulus to this package is estimated by some liberal economists it may ignite inflation. 
There's a danger here, . The danger to that same middle income family we're concerned about, that their savings evaporate because inflation is turned on. That's not me, that's people like Larry Summers and Jason Furman. 
  Well, I'm going to be asking Senator Murphy about just exactly that in the next segment. 
But let me come at this one last way. President Biden is going to be traveling around the country in the next few weeks saying things like this. 
  It provides food and nutrition, keeps families in their homes, and it will cut child poverty in this country in half. 
  He and other Democrats are going to say, look, back in  Republicans and President Trump passed big tax cuts to benefit corporations and the wealthy. We, the Democrats, he's going to say, are taking care of working-class people. 
  So, first, let's look at the Trump economy, if you will, in which there was record -- record employment for those without a high school education, for high school dropouts, for disabled, for veterans, for African-Americans, Hispanics, women, fill in the blank, record employment. 
Now that was a sort of economy that resulted from the Trump tax cuts. Indeed, the last time I was on with you, you had somebody from President Biden's economic council saying they wanted to return to the economy pre- COVID. He kind of caught himself because that was the Republican Senate and the Trump economy. 
Now they are trying to do it by just pumping dollars in. It may work or it may ignite inflation, which pulls down somebody into a vortex of losing their savings. We'll see. 
Is it better to let people keep their own money or is it better to take it from them and give it back? That's the difference between the two parties. 
  Meanwhile, there is another crisis, an immigration crisis, on our southern border. Last month, the largest number of unaccompanied minors was apprehended at the border, , since May of . That was  percent increase February of  over February of . 
How much responsibility, Senator, do you think President Biden and his change in policies in these first  days, how much responsibility does he bear for the surge at the border? 
  Empirically, it is entirely. You can't help but notice that the administration changes and there's a surge. 
I saw one of his advisors said in Spanish , which means the border is not closed, and then in English she said, oh, she misspoke, it is. 
I can tell you, the Spanish version is being heard, not the English, and that's being reported in national newspapers as well. 
And so when people think they can get in, they begin sending their unaccompanied child on a train ride across Mexico where she may be kidnapped and traffic on the hope that they're going to be waived through at the border. This policy is leading to this surge, that is unmistakable. 
  The headlines this morning are that the Biden administration is going to send FEMA officials to the border to help with the handling of the unaccompanied minors. 
Will that make a difference, and what does the Biden administration need to do to get a handle on this situation? 
  First, the fact they're sending FEMA tells us that the  percent they anticipate growing to  percent or even a higher number. They're sending FEMA as reinforcements. Not for today, not for tomorrow but for three weeks from now. 
And what is clear, there can be no equivocation when sending a message to people who are thinking of joining a caravan. It has to be our border is closed. You can't say in Spanish one thing and in English another, one for the consumption of those in Central America and the other for domestic consumption. 
It has to be the same message. They're not doing that. 
  Senator Cassidy, thank you. Thanks for your time this weekend. It's always good to talk with you, sir. 
  Thank you, . 
  Up next, the response from Democrats. We'll ask Senator  Murphy about concerns the relief package will overheat the economy and spur a wave of inflation. 
  At least in the short-term, Democrats' legislative victory this week is likely to be politically popular, but what if the economy overheats and some of the massive new spending doesn't stand up to scrutiny? 
Joining us now, Democratic Senator  Murphy of Connecticut. 
Senator, I just heard, as I'm sure you heard, discussing some of the positives of the plan with Senator Cassidy. I want to talk to you about some of the concerns, concerns that he raised. 
Here is Senate Republican Leader Mitch McConnell this week on the $. trillion plan. 
  This wasn't a bill to finish off the pandemic, it was a multitrillion dollar Trojan horse full of bad, old, liberal ideas. President Biden's own staff keep calling this legislation, quote, the most progressive bill in American history. 
  The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says $ billion, that's more than a third of all the funding, won't be spent until next year or later. So Senator Murphy, how does that qualify as COVID relief? 
  Well, as you mentioned, this bill is wildly popular amongst the American populace. Seventy-five percent of Americans support it because they know that this is the moment to go big. Eighty percent of people out there don't have enough money to pay their monthly bills, and so that's what you need to put an unprecedented amount of money into the hands of low- and middle-income Americans. 
And I love this argument from Republicans that this is some progressive wish list. Almost everything in this bill is simply an extension of the programs that Republicans were wildly enthusiastic about back when they were in charge of the White House and the Senate. In fact, they were cheering some of these programs at the end of last year like the $, stimulus payments. 
Your question is specific, what about the portion of the spending that is made eligible past ? Well, let me tell you, the crisis in America's schools is going to last beyond this year. The amount of catch-up the kids are going to have to do, the amount of work we're going to have to do to deal with the trauma that has been inflicted on kids who have been out of school for so long is significant. 
And so, yes, some of this money is going to be able to be spent in the next school year as well, because we know we have a herculean endeavor ahead of us to try to make sure that kids and families are made whole. But the bill is popular because it's putting money right now into the hands of families who desperately need it. 
  Then there is the concern, which I discussed with Senator Cassidy, that it's just plain too much money. The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office says the economy is down about $ to $ billion because of the pandemic, not $. trillion, and here's former Treasury Secretary Larry Summers, a Democrat, on this subject. 
  There's a real possibility that within the year we are going to be dealing with the most serious incipient inflation problem that we have faced in the last  years. 
  So are Larry Summers and the CBO wrong? 
  Well, they are. We're not going to face an inflation problem, we're going to be sitting on an economy that is going to grow twice as fast as it would have without this bill. That is also what economists have told us. 
Listen, Republicans didn't think this exact amount of money was too big last March when they supported the CARES Act, and by the way, last March there was one-third the number of people dying every day of COVID- as are dying today. And as you mentioned to Senator Cassidy, Republicans certainly didn't think that $. trillion was too much when they were passing tax cuts for their wealthy friends. 
Listen, last week as we were passing the American Rescue Plan, Republicans proposed to eliminate the estate tax for the tiny fraction of millionaires and billionaires that still pay it. They had no plans to pay for that. 
Once again, when it comes to supporting the richest, wealthiest Americans, Republicans are very enthusiastic about debt-financed tax cuts, but when it comes to supporting poor people or folks in the middle class, all of the sudden it's too hot for their taste. 
  Senator , let's turn to the surge of immigration at the border, as I just went over the numbers with Senator Cassidy, the highest since May of , especially of unaccompanied minors. 
President Biden has suspended a Trump policy that asylum-seekers must remain in Mexico for their hearings. He also halted part of Title  so that unaccompanied minors, instead of having to be turned around immediately, can stay in the huge U.S. 
Haven't those changes in policy sent a clear message to migrants there's a green light at the border? 
  Well, let's go a little bit deeper into these numbers because Republicans would make you think that this crisis began when Joe Biden became president. That's absolutely not true. In fact, the surge at the border began last fall in the last four months of Donald Trump's presidency. 
There was an  percent increase in apprehensions and presentations at the border. And as you mentioned, the  year high for crossings without documentation of the border was in the middle of Trump's presidency in  when we had the most inhumane policies possible when we were building a wall at the border. 
So this idea that it's Joe Biden's election that has prompted more people to show up is belied by the actual facts. And there have actually also been some pretty significant changes that the Mexican government has made that has made it impossible in some cases to turn these kids around. 
So, listen, this president inherited a mess from Donald Trump when it comes to immigration. He's trying to fix it in a humane way. And my hope is that Congress will provide the resources to restart some of these programs in Central America that provides less incentive for people to flee and come to the United States. 
  But, Senator, I don't think it's fair to say that this is all Donald Trump's problem. If it was a problem at the end of the Trump presidency, it's gotten worse under Joe Biden. 
Take a look at these numbers. More than , unaccompanied minors, ,, are now being held in HHS shelters. Almost , are stuck in border patrol stations. It's bad, it's getting worse, as we just reported, FEMA is going to go down there to try and help manage the problem and we're not even in the peak migration period of April and May. 
  Listen, this is a challenge, but the point I'm making is that you had the  year high of presentations at the border in the middle of the Trump presidency, so this idea that Donald Trump's policies -- 
  I know, and then it went down after that, sir. 
  Then it went down and at the end of Trump's presidency it started to come back up again -- 
  It's more than double what it was a year ago. 
  Yes, but -- so the point being that the evidence suggests that it isn't the policy of the U.S. administration that drives migration to the United States, it's the desperation of the circumstances that these people are living under. 
So let's follow Joe Biden's advice and start putting some money into helping quell the reasons for migration. Let's restart the program that allows for kids to apply for asylum in their home country in places like Honduras and Guatemala instead of waiting until they get here. There are things we can do to solve for this but it's not simply just the policies of any administration that creates these crises. 
  Finally, this week, the House passed a bill to dramatically increase, expand background checks for gun sales. You have proposed similar legislation in the Senate. But I don't have to tell you even after the horrors of Sandy Hook and the AME church in Charleston, the Senate rejected those. 
What makes you think it's going to be any different this time, sir? 
  Well, you know, there's very little that's more popular in America today than universal background checks. Ninety percent of Americans support them. The House passed it with a bipartisan majority. 
Your question is, what's different? Well, I think the NRA is so much weaker than they used to be, the gun lobby. The antigun violence movement is stronger than they have been before and I've gotten a lot of calls from Republican senators over the past two years, folks that voted against background checks in , who are willing to take a fresh look. And I think that's in part because the politics here have changed. 
NRA A-rated members of the House and Senate are losing their seats in a way that they didn't a decade ago. So we're going to bring this bill up for a vote in the United States Senate. I understand it will be tough to get to  but, man, this is one of those few votes in which you have a chance to save lives. No criminal, no person with serious mental illness should be able to get their hands on a gun. That's something that Republicans and Democrats should be able to agree on very soon. 
  Senator Murphy, thank you. Thanks for coming in today. Please come back, sir. 
  Thanks a lot. 
  Up next, we'll ask Dr. Anthony Fauci about the president's goal of getting life closer to normal by the Fourth of July. 
  Coming up, more big-name Democrats call on Governor Andrew Cuomo to step down. 
  Do something that's decent after these many, many indecent revelations and simply resign. 
  We'll ask our Sunday panel about the fate of New York's top Democrat as more women come forward. 
  The head of the CDC says the next two months will be critical in determining the future course of the COVID crisis in this country. 
Joining us now, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the White House chief medical advisor. 
Doctor, welcome back to "FOX News Sunday." 
  Thank you, . Good to be with you. 
  I want to start with a pretty impressive number.  million vaccinations administered yesterday, Saturday. Not  million doses in a day, not  million, but  million. 
How did that happen, first of all? And secondly, can we keep up that pace? 
  You know, , I think not only can we keep up the pace, we might even do better, and that is because the implementation of the program of getting vaccines into people's arms is really accelerating greatly. You know, with the community vaccine centers, pharmacies getting vaccines in, mobile unites going out and getting a lot more people who can actually vaccine people, military members, retired physicians, nurses, and health care providers. So you're seeing two things simultaneously, a lot more doses available and a greater efficiency in getting it into people's arms. So I'm not surprised at that number. I think we're going to maintain it and we might even do better. 
 I want to show our viewers two charts. Let me put them on the screen. First, the seven day average of new cases, which spiked dramatically in January, is down sharply but still over , per day. And, second, the number of deaths reported per day, which also is down sharply, but if you look at that horizontal line, is still higher than it was during the very concerning spike last July. 
So I guess really two questions, is it too soon to say that we are in the process of beating this virus, and what are the chances that this could still turn around and we could end up with a fourth wave of COVID? 
 That's the critical question, . And when you see a plateau, we're very pleased by the sharp decline that you've shown. But when you see a plateauing at a level of anywhere between , and , cases a day, that is absolutely no time to declare victory because we know from previous urges that we've had over the year that when you see that leveling off at a high level, there's always the risk of a surge back up. 
And, in fact, unfortunately, that's exactly what is happening in Europe right now. They had the same kind of decline. They always seem to be a few weeks ahead of us in the dynamics of the outbreak. Then they plateaued because they pulled back a bit. They thought that they were home free and they weren't. And now they're seeing an increase up. 
We have to avoid that, . We're going in the right direction. Vaccines, as you mentioned, every day we get more and more people vaccinated, which gets us closer and closer to a better protection. To pull back now prematurely would be ill-advised. 
 Well, let's follow up on that issue. I'm going to ask you a question straight out, I want a straight answer. Given the tenuous situation we're in, is what Texas did this past week, ending the mask mandate, reopening  percent, is what Texas did dangerous? 
 I think it's risky and potentially dangerous, yes. 
 And you say that because? 
 Well, for the simple reason of what I -- what I just explained. If you have a baseline of infection that is quite high, and if you look at the numbers, we are not out of the woods yet. When you pull back on all mitigation methods, on all public health guidelines, that's when you get into trouble. 
I mean history has proven that, . This isn't just some kind of a theoretical -- a point that I'm trying to make. It's not theoretical, it actually happens. Take a look of January, February, March, April, in the late winter, early spring of . Take a look at the summer of . And now look at where we are right now. If you look at those numbers, that plateau bothers me and other public health officials. When you plateau at a high level, there's enough viral activity in the community that when you pull back on things like masking and not pay attention to avoiding congregate settings, it is very risky to get another surge. 
If you wait just a bit longer to give the vaccine program a chance to increase the protection in the community, then it makes pulling back much less risky. But if you do it prematurely, there really is a danger of triggering another surge. 
 President Biden set a number of goals for the nation in his speech to the country this week. 
Let's take a look. 
 All adults, people  and over, eligible to be vaccinated no later than May . 
By July the th there's a good chance you, your families and friends will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and have a cookout or a barbecue and celebrate Independence Day. 
 Doctor, how confident are you that we're going to be able to meet the president 's goals, May  for eligibility, May th for actual access to the vaccines, July th for small gatherings? How confident are you we're going to meet all of those and which of the three do you think is going to be the hardest to meet? 
 Well, , I'm pretty confident that we are. Those are quite reasonable goals and expectations. The first one about what I was referring a couple of weeks ago on your show about like open season, meaning you don't have to fall into one of the priority categories. You got those taken care of and now you can open it up to anyone. 
If you look at the number of vaccines that are going into people now, I think that goal of anybody  years of age or older will be able to get a vaccine by May st. I think that's quite reasonable. 
The amount of vaccines that are going to be available by the end of May, I -- clearly that's something that's right on target with the new contracts that have been made with the pharmaceutical companies to get even more doses. If, in fact, we do that and we vaccinated people at the rate that we just referred to a few minutes ago, I think the Fourth of July projection is really quite reasonable. I don't see any stumbling blocks in that. 
The only thing that you always have to be careful of is that if, in fact, getting back to our conversation a few moments ago, we don't pay attention to that plateauing and more states essentially pull back all public health measures, we could have a surge back up. And if the surge back up comes, that would endanger the goal of getting people much more towards normal in the beginning of the summer. It's not going to influence the vaccination program or the vaccination rate, but it could influence how soon we get back to normal. 
 Doctor, let me talk to you about another possible concern. 
If we were to reach those goals, that pretty soon after that the problem with vaccines is not going to be supply, it's going to be demand and whether people are willing to actually get the vaccine. 
I want to put up a public service announcement that four of our former U.S. presidents put out this week. 
Take a look. 
 So we urge you to get vaccinated when it's available to you. 
 So roll up your sleeve and do your part. 
 This is our shot. 
 Now it's up to you. 
 Now, conspicuous by his absence in that public service announcement was President Trump. And here's why that was important. According to a recent poll,  percent of Republican men said they don't intend to get the vaccine. 
Doctor, how much of a difference will it make if President Trump, who was largely responsible for the success of Operation Warp Speed, how much of a difference will it make if President Trump leads a campaign for the people who are most devoted to him to actually go out and get the vaccine? 
 , I think it would make all the difference in the world. He's a very widely popular person among Republicans. If he came out and said, go and get vaccinated, it's really important for your health, the health of your family and the health of the country, it seems absolutely inevitable that the vast majority of people who are his close followers would listen to him. He's such a strongly popular person. I cannot imagine that if he comes out that they would not get vaccinated. It would be very helpful to the effort for that to happen. 
I'm very surprised at the high percentage of Republicans who say they don't want to get vaccinated. I don't understand where that's coming from. This is not a political issue. This is a public health issue. And the history of vaccinology tells us when you look at smallpox, polio, measles, all the things that vaccines have been so incredibly helpful in getting us out of difficulty with those infections, I just don't get it, , why they don't want to get vaccinated. 
 Well, let me ask you another question. You know, as we say, President Trump was largely responsible for the fact that we have all these vaccines available now. Why do you think he hasn't spread that message, didn't participate in the PSA, and got the vaccine in private and didn't make it public in January when he was still in the White House? 
 Yes. Again, it's puzzling to me. I mean clearly Operation Warp Speed started in the Trump administration. It was very successful in getting us the vaccines we have right now. It seems like an intrinsic contradiction, the fact that you had a program that was started during his presidency and he's not out telling people to get vaccinated. I wish he would. He has such an incredible influence over people in the Republican Party. It would really be a game changer if he did. 
 Dr. Fauci, thank you. Thanks for taking the time to talk with us. Always a pleasure. Please come back, sir. 
 Thank you, , good to be with you. 
 Up next, we'll bring in our Sunday group to discuss the fate of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo as more members of his own party push for his resignation. 
 And it's not one, it's not two, it's not three, it's not four, it's not five, it's six women who have come forward. 
 People know the difference between playing politics, bowing to cancel culture, and the truth. Let the review proceed. I'm not going to resign. I was not elected by the politicians. I was elected by the people. 
 New York Governor Andrew Cuomo responding to growing calls to resign after now not six, but seven women have come forward to accuse him of inappropriate behavior. 
And it's time now for our Sunday group. GOP strategist Karl Rove, Jonathan Swan from "Axios," and former DNC Chair Donna Brazile. 
Jonathan, the Andrew Cuomo saga entered a new chapter on Friday when the state's two Democratic senators, Chuck Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, called for the senator to step down, along with  of the state's  Democratic members of Congress, including Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Jerry Nadler. 
Jonathan, what do you think the calculation was by the New York congressional delegation, and is there any chance that President Biden will join the chorus calling on Governor Cuomo to step down? 
 Well, part of this is that -- that Andrew Cuomo doesn't have a lot of friends, doesn't have a lot of ingrained loyalty and affection for him over the years. He's made a lot of enemies. And now, in his moment of need, he is finding himself very isolated. 
Him and Chuck Schumer have a terrible relationship. So Chuck Schumer calling for him to resign won't have any impact on Cuomo's thinking. But you just mentioned the elephant in the room, it's Joe Biden. He has a long- term, long, deep relationship with the Cuomos, father and son, Mario and Andrew, and this makes it extra uncomfortable. 
As of yesterday, I'm told that Joe Biden has not discussed the scandal with Andrew Cuomo, but each day that passes and more Democrats come out calling for his resignation, the president's silence becomes more conspicuous. I don't know that it's sustainable as these allegations pile up for him to remain silent. 
 Karl, I remember two years ago when just about every national Democrat called on the governor of Virginia, Ralph Northam, to resign after a photo appeared in a yearbook allegedly of him in blackface. 
Last time I checked, Ralph Northam is still the governor of Virginia. Can Andrew Cuomo just tough this out at least until we see the results of the federal and state investigations into both this and to the nursing home scandal? 
 Yes, I -- yes, he can, you know, sort of string this out until the investigations are concluded. But this is significantly different than the incident involving Governor Northam. This is seven contemporaneous attempts by the governor to harass women in his employee. And that's a little bit different than the shenanigans that may have taken place during Governor Northam's medical school days. 
I think the key moment was not Friday when the members of the congressional delegation came out in favor of the governor's resignation, it was Thursday when a grand total of  of the  members of the state senate and state assembly came out in favor of either his resignation or his impeachment. And that day the house -- the assembly in New York, began an investigation into this. I don't see how he hangs -- hangs on much beyond the end of that investigation. It's -- I think Jonathan was absolutely right, he made a lot of enemies on his way up and they're exacting their revenge on his way down. And I think he's toast. It may last until the investigation gets finished, but I suspect we're going to see a move by the assembly to impeach him and we'll see if he either waits for the inevitable, or gracefully departs the scene after finishing the state budget. 
 Donna, should Andrew Cuomo resign, will Andrew Cuomo resign? 
 I'll take the second one first. No, he's defying . He's -- he's not going to listen to the music no matter how loud it plays in and around him. He is going to follow his own instincts, which is to try to tough it out, because that's the kind of person he is. This is a drip, drip, drip situation and, unfortunately, he's not going to be able to govern effectively for the people of New York who really need leadership at this moment. 
Of course, the investigations, I think, will conclude what we've heard from these women who should be respected and protected, that he created a hostile workplace. 
 Meanwhile, let's switch subjects. 
President Biden has been in office for  days. This is day number . And he still hasn't held a press conference. Instead, we've had a lot of this. 
Take a look. 
 Mr. President, can you pass voting rights with a Senate filibuster in its current form, do you think? 
 I can talk to you about that later. 
 The Fox newsroom  went all the way back to Herbert Hoover, who held a news conference the day after his inauguration in , the slowest to meet with reporters since then our Eisenhower at  days and George W. Bush at . 
So, Jonathan, we are at  days and counting with Joe Biden. How come? 
 Well, it's no surprise. It's an extension of what he basically did throughout the campaign, which was very minimal -- he basically didn't subject himself to extended, tough questioning. 
Now, you know, obviously I, you know, would love him to do a press conference every week, but we should also be clear-eyed about what these press conferences do and don't achieve. I mean they're largely performance art. You get very little chance to actually ask follow-up questions. It's actually quite easy for a president to do a press conference. 
What I would love to see Biden do, not just press conference, but serious, sit down one-on-one interviews where he can actually -- not for the benefit of the interviewer, for the public -- answer serious, depth questions with follow-ups because that's where you actually test their thinking and you actually get a sense of whether there's more understanding from them or you get insight into their thinking of how they made decisions. You don't get that from press conferences. So, you know, he's doing the same strategy he did during the campaign. It worked for him in the campaign. And, you know, they're betting internally that the public doesn't care. They might be right, but it's important for the public interest that he does this sort of thing. 
 Yes, and I think, Jonathan, you and I may have our own ideas about with whom he should do that first in-depth interview. 
 Yes, that's not self-serving at all, right! 
 . No, no, not at all. 
Karl, you were one of the people in a White House having to make this calculation. What does it say that it's been close to two months now and Joe Biden hasn't held a news conference? Does it -- in -- and as Jonathan rightly points out, he didn't hold them a lot during the campaign -- does it indicate that the people around him have questions about the president's ability, discipline to stay on message? 
 Yes, that could be one of their concerns and he's just not up to it, that at the age of  he's lost a few steps and he's not going to look go in a news conference. And there's -- 
 Well, wait, wait, I'm -- I'm not --I'm not really saying -- I'm not saying -- I'm not saying -- let me just make it clear, I'm not saying that, I'm just saying, you know, we know he can make gaffes, he can go off on tangents. Are they -- you know, is that a concern that he just doesn't stay on message? 
 Well, I think that's one of them, but I -- I think the other one is, is that they got away with it in the campaign, why subject them to tough scrutiny when he's in office? I mean they -- they got -- from essentially March until November they got glove treatment by the press and I suspect they think they can get away with it. 
I think this is a mistake, though, because they're raising the expectations, not only of the media, not only is it people like you and Jonathan who are desperate for that first major interview with him, but the ordinary Americans are looking at this and saying, why is the guy not able to hold a news conference, why is he not able to do an interview? 
And then we focus in on things like the other day when he couldn't remember the name of his secretary of defense who was standing about five feet to his left. So the White House -- you know, give him an easy day, have it happen early enough in the day that he's sharp and at his best, and get it over with. Otherwise, they're simply raising doubts and raising the stakes, if you will, for the first time that he goes out and ultimately does this. 
 Donna, we've got less than a minute left. I mean is it counterproductive for the White House, because they have delayed so long, that now suddenly this is going to be a big deal and instead of being routine there will be a lot of scrutiny about Joe Biden does ? 
 Well, I think he's heard the music. The White House has said that the president will talk to all of us before the end of this month. So I take him at his word. 
Look, as you well know, Joe Biden preferred to talk to voters and right now voters want to know when the -- when will the check arrive? So I'm confident that there will be a press conference. He will have a lot of pep in his step. And we will learn more about how the Biden-Harris administration is defeating this virus. That's with the American people elected him to do, defeat the virus. 
 Well, reporters would like him to answer some questions, and Jonathan and I would like him to sit down with us. 
Thank you, panel, see you next Sunday. 
Up next, our "Power Player of the Week." You'll meet a remarkable young man who has spent years trying to help other kids facing the same challenges he does. You don't want to miss this. 
 You may not know his name, but you definitely know his face, and you've watched him grow up on camera and, yes, touch your heart. 
Here's our "Power Player of the Week." 
 I didn't think I'd get as famous as I have become. But the commercials, they do a lot of good for the hospital and that's honestly all I really care about. 
Imagine a kid who's told his disability will be a lifelong struggle. 
 Alec Cabacungan was  when he filmed his first commercial for Shriners Hospital. 
 But Shriners Hospital is for children, helped kids like me. 
 A philanthropic fraternity known for their red fez hats, the Shriners run  facilities in North America, treating children who need specialized medical care. 
 When the director, he first recorded with me, he was like, you know, I see something in this kid. 
We will send to this adorable love to the rescue blanket as a thank you. 
 Donations skyrocketed as viewers responded to Alec's appeal. He became the face of Shriners. 
 And all of a sudden people are coming up to me, and I'm like  at the time, Mr. , I was panicking. I was like, who are all these people? How do they know me? 
 Alec was born with brittle bone disease. His parents took him to Shriners at age two months. 
 I go there for physical therapy, for clinic visits, for x-rays, surgeries. Shriners Hospital for Children in Chicago has been extreme helpful in my life. 
 Still, there's no cure, so Alec lives with his disease. 
 I've broken over  bones in my lifetime. I use my wheelchair daily, /, so I can't walk. I can't reach for things on a high shelf or anything like that. But, you know, I -- I figure out ways I can live my life very happily. 
Welcome back to my show. It's a good day to have some fun. 
 Despite his condition, Alec is a sports fanatic. He hosts his own YouTube show talking with athletes. 
 You played in the NFL and then you made the switch to Hollywood. 
 And he plays wheelchair basketball. The Shriners Hospital he goes to named it's court after him. 
 It's a contact sport. I've gotten injured a couple of times. But I love it so much. It's a passion for me. Every weekend I'm shooting hoops with my friends. I'm pushing my chair just as fast as anyone else. 
 Have you got a game? Have you got a shot? 
 Oh, of course, Mr. . Of course. Yes, sir. 
 You've certainly got the trash talk down. 
 Oh, yes, no, it's part of the game. It's a lot of fun. 
This is a special place. Come with me. 
 Now, at age , Alec is no longer a Shriners kid. 
 So, I've got to say, Alec, that over these years you've grown up, now you're the elder statesman. You're not the cute little kid anymore. 
How do you feel about that? 
 No, I'm not the cute little kid anymore. I'm like the big brother, like the mentor to the kids in the commercials now. 
 Today, Alec is a college freshman studying journalism at Northwestern with dreams of becoming a sportscaster. 
 I have a great support system around me. Whenever I'm down, they always pick me back up. And I appreciate them for it. I'd be lying to you if I said that it doesn't, but it gets to me every now and then. 
 But it doesn't sound like you're two down for too long. 
 I'm not. I'll never be down for more than ten seconds. 
 If you'd like to make a donation to Shriners Hospitals, go to LoveToTheRescue.org. 
Homeland Security Secretary Alejandro Mayorkas tells ‘Fox News Sunday’ the Biden administration is encouraging families not to send their migrant children along ‘dangerous’ border. This is a rush transcript from "Fox News Sunday," March , . This copy may not be in its final form and may be updated  I'm . President Biden's immigration policy is under fire as a flood of unaccompanied children arrive at the Southern border and get to stay in the U.S. 
 Their families make the heart wrenching decision to send them on a journey across Mexico to provide them with a better, safer future
The surge of minors overwhelming rural facilities in Texas, where the governor is leading the charge against the president's policies  The Biden administration must also answer for enticing unaccompanied minors into inhumane conditions
We'll talk with a man in charge of securing the border, Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas. Then, the immigration bill moving to the Senate floor highlight the gridlock in Congress on the fight over the filibuster. We'll sit down with Republican Senator Tom Cotton, only on "FOX News Sunday" Plus --    Hate can have no safe harbor in America
The shootings at Asian-run spas in Atlanta trigger a national debate. We'll ask our Sunday panel whether the mass killings are part of growing violence against Asian-Americans. And our "Power Player of the Week." He's known as Beeple and his digital creation  years in the making just sold for $ million. All, right now, on "FOX News Sunday" 
 And hello again from FOX News in Washington. The number of migrants caught trying to cross into this country from Mexico is on the rise and headed for a -year high. Members of the Biden administration have refused to call the situation on the border crisis, but there's growing concern about the flood of unaccompanied minors into the U.S. and the conditions they face once they're here. Many Republicans say the Biden administration's decision to relax President Trump's policies is driving the surge. In a moment, we'll sit down with the manner charge of securing the border, the Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas. But first, FOX team coverage. David Spunt reports from the White House but we begin with Steve Harrigan in Mission, Texas, on the U.S. border with Mexico -- Steve
, we've just been watching migrants cross over the border here into Mission, Texas. Small groups, three, five, ten. We've seen buses go by as well to the processing center, some coming from as far away as Honduras 
 This family has been walking for seven months. The husband, , carries his son, age  on his shoulders. The wife, , carries their one bag. The walk began  miles ago in Honduras. The motivation was life or death. A gang killed her brother, he says. It got very dangerous. They said they were going to kill us all, she says. The family is just one of many migrant families streaming north in small groups. 
 Once across the Rio Grande onto U.S. territory, signs direct them to a processing center. The makeshift site offers some protection against the heat, the rain, and COVID. The family says they are going to Houston, confident they will not be separated or deported. The family says they don't know if it will be easier. They are going to try to find out. 
 When you stand next to that family and look at them, especially the mother, you really see a deep sense of exhaustion -- 
Steve Harrigan reporting from the southern border. Steve, thank you for that Now let's turn to David Spunt at the White House with the view from Washington -- David
Hi, . The administration's message to migrants now is not the time to come to the southern border. Critics say that message needs to be more aggressive and the president needs to visit personally now 
 Thank you.  Two months into the job, the Biden White House is scrambling to manage a humanitarian dilemma
We've got to deal with it and deal with it directly. The word is out in Central America, there is a new administration and it's being tested  The president and his administration preferred to call the surge a challenge, but Republicans insist it's much more
This is a crisis. I don't care what the secretary of homeland security wants to call it It's a crisis
Agents took into custody more than , family units last month, though officials are seeing a surge specifically in unaccompanied children. There are around , unaccompanied children in custody and the numbers continue to rise. Nearly , unaccompanied children were detained at the border in February That's nearly three times the amount from last February
We can solve the immigration problem, but don't confuse a border crisis with an immigration problem 
 The House passed two White House-approved immigration bills last Thursday. The fate of those bills unclear in an evenly divided Senate -- 
David, thank you. And joining us now, the Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas. Mr. Secretary, welcome to "FOX News Sunday"  Good morning and thank you for having me, 
I want to start with something that White House Press Secretary  said this week. Take a look, sir 
 We are taking steps to ensure that when kids come to the border we look and see if they have a phone number in their pockets so we can call the family member and get them to those family members as quickly as possible. 
 I understand compassion for these children but why is it the responsibility of the U.S. to resettle  minors coming across the border illegally?  , that is the law under the United States. We have an asylum program that recognizes young children -- young, vulnerable children's right to claim asylum, to claim fear from persecution by reason of their membership in a particular group. That is what the law provides and we administer and enforce those laws
You and the administration talk about being humane. But let's go back to what the Trump policy was, which, in the case of non-Mexican minors was not, as it's been suggested, simply to turn these kids around and push them back into the desert. In fact, we would coordinate with other countries, we would charter planes, we would send them back by airplane to resettle with their families. Why is it more humane to take these kids, to put them in Border Patrol facilities that were not meant for children, often times for many more days than the legal limit?  , that is not what the prior administration did. Forgive me, the prior administration did expel children, did fly children to countries where -- from which they were fleeing, countries that did not have the capacity to administer asylum claims, countries that suffer tremendous violence, poverty, corruption, and other infirmities So to suggest that the prior administration handled the needs of children in a humane way is just false
Well, you seem to have agreed with me, sir, that they would put them on planes, they wouldn't just send them back over the desert. They'd put them on a plane and fly them back to Guatemala or El Salvador. Are you suggesting that every minor, the thousands and thousands of minors coming across this country, has a legitimate asylum claim and that a lot of them aren't just coming across the border because they want to have a better life here -- which is understandable but isn't necessarily our responsibility?  
, we administer our laws and let me say a few things, if I may. Number one, the prior administration dismantled the orderly and safe way that these children could make their claims. It tore down the Central American Minors program that allow these children to make their claims under United States' law without having to take the perilous journey. We are rebuilding that process. We are encouraging families not to send their children along the dangerous journey because so many do not make it safely. We are encouraging them not to do so. Yet, if they arrive at the border, we have a responsibility to allow them to make their claims under United States' law and to address -- these are vulnerable children, to address their needs. And we can do so in a safe and orderly manner. It takes time because the entire system was dismantled We are working on it and we will succeed because that is what we do
I'm going to get back to that in a moment, Mr. Secretary. But the day after President Biden took office, he made this promise to the American people. Take a look 
 The Vice President Harris and I and our entire administration, we'll always be honest and transparent with you about both the good news and the bad. 
 So why has the Biden administration refused to allow reporters to see for themselves and to record what the conditions are under which these minors are being housed? Why, in fact, did you -- when you went to the border on Friday and led a congressional delegation, why did you refuse to allow reporters to see the conditions under which these minors are being held?  Two things, , if I may. Number one, let's not forget that we're in the midst of a pandemic and we are focused on our operations, executing our operations in a crowded Border Patrol facility where hundreds of vulnerable migrant children are located. Number one. And number two, we're working on providing footage so that the American public can see the Border Patrol stations. And I would encourage you and other reporters to see the facilities under the control of the Health and Human Services Department where those children are sheltered and where they belong and where we are moving them as quickly as possible
Secretary Mayorkas, respectfully, sir, I think that there is a safe condition under which a pool reporter and a pool camera crew could go into some of these facilities -- this has been going on for two months now -- and record the conditions under which these minors are being held It seems to me to say it's impossible to do because of COVID sounds like an excuse
, we're working on providing access so that individuals will be able to see what the conditions in a Border Patrol station are like. But first things first, we are in the midst of a pandemic and we're focused on operations and executing on our plans. That's our highest priority But we are providing -- 
 -- for that access and certainly reporters can see the Department of Health and Human Services facility in which children are sheltered for a longer period of time
Texas Governor Greg Abbott raised two concerns this week about conditions in the camp for minors in Midland, Texas. Take a look, sir 
 So there is no viable, usable running water at the location in Midland and then, on top of that, more than  percent of the migrants at the Midland location have now tested positive for COVID-. 
 Mr. Secretary, why not let reporters go to see what the conditions are at the camp in Midland? And is it true that more than  percent of the minors in Midland have tested positive and, in fact, that more than  migrants in Brownsville tested positive for COVID and then were released?  , the minors who are arriving and who are placed in the Department of Health and Human Services facilities are tested. They are all tested, isolated, and quarantined. Our COVID- protocols that are administered by the Department of Health and Human Services are operated very efficiently. We also, I should say, work very closely with local officials in Texas with local organizations to also test, isolate, and quarantine children. And we offer reimbursement,  percent, from FEMA. And I do hope that Governor Abbott reconsiders his position of not allowing those local organizations and local officials to be reimbursed  percent by the federal government. That's all in the service --  I want to --  -- of the public health imperative
Excuse me, sir. I want to put up what President Biden has done on immigration policy in just his first two months in office. He halted part of Title  to allow unaccompanied minors to stay in the U.S. during the pandemic. He ended the provision that asylum seekers must remain in Mexico while their cases are being heard And he suspended the Safe Third Country Agreements to share asylum seekers with other countries
We are on pace to encounter more individuals on the Southwest border than we have in the last  years. Mr. Secretary, do you not see a connection between the surge at the border and the policy changes that Joe Biden has made in his first two months?  , I do not. What I am seeing is the result and what we are seeing is the result of President Trump's dismantlement of the safe and orderly immigration processes that were built over many, many years by presidents of both parties. That's what we are seeing and that's why it's taking time for us to execute our plans to administer the humanitarian claims of vulnerable children. That's what this is about. This is about vulnerable children. And let me say one thing as well, if I may, . Safe Third Country Agreements is misnamed. There's nothing safe about it. To return people to the very countries from which they are fleeing persecution. That's just false and we have replaced the Remain in Mexico policy with a safe and orderly triage system, working with our partners in Mexico, and humanitarian organizations in the international space and we are not expelling vulnerable children At the same time, we are encouraging them not to take the dangerous journey because we are rebuilding orderly processes for them as well, as our country has always had, until the prior administration
One final question, sir. You say that you are encouraging minors not to come across. The message, clearly, isn't getting through. It's true that the number of people coming across the border began to increase in the final months of the Trump administration, but there has been a big sharp spike since Joe Biden has come in . And I want to put up some of the numbers here. Seventy-four thousand border apprehensions in Trump's final months -- full month of December. One hundred thousand in Joe Biden's first full month in February. Just under , unaccompanied minors came across the border, apprehended in Trump's final months of December. Ninety-four hundred in December -- in February. The numbers rose dramatically after President Biden took office, after he changed the policies. And in addition, for all your talk about minors, the fact is, sir, according to CBP Border Patrol numbers, . percent of the family units that came across in February have been allowed to stay in this country You are not returning them -- the vast majority of them back south of the border
, a few points there. You mentioned that the numbers began to spike up, admittedly, in the last couple months of the Trump administration. Actually, the numbers began to spike in April of . The numbers were extremely high throughout  This administration did not --  Not like they have been in February, sir -- 
 -- arms of their parents.  Not like they have been in February -- 
 , we do expel families. We are working with Mexico to increase Mexico's capacity to receive the expelled families. The border is secure. The border is closed. We've been unequivocal in that and we are operationalizing our processes, executing our plans, we are a nation of laws, and we treat vulnerable children humanely. We can do it and we are doing it
Secretary Mayorkas, thank you. Thanks for your time this week and thank you for answering all our questions And please come back, sir
I look forward to it And thank you, 
Up next, we'll get reaction from Republican Senator Tom Cotton, who says he has three simple solutions to stop the surge across the border 
 Our next guest has called the Biden administration's immigration plan "recruit and release". Joining us now, Arkansas Senator Tom Cotton. Senator, welcome back.  Good to be on with you, 
You just watched my interview with Secretary Mayorkas. Your reaction, sir?  , it's rich that Secretary Mayorkas won't let press travel with him to the border, but he will come on your Sunday morning show and peddle the same kind of nonsense that has created the Biden border crisis in the first place I mean, he's basically saying the United States will not secure our border and that is a big welcome sign to migrants from across the world
So you say that you have three simple solutions. What are they?  Yeah, , the Biden administration keeps saying that Trump somehow dismantled the immigration system. That's false. It was the Biden administration that dismantled three highly effective policies. First, the public health exclusionary order. They lifted that order as it relates to minors. Well, guess what we have now with the border? Lots more minors. That's not a surprise. Second, the "remain in Mexico" policy. The Trump administration worked with the government of Mexico to allow migrants who showed up on our border to make an asylum claim but remain in Mexico while we adjudicated rather than just releasing them into the country. And third, the so-called safe third country agreement with countries like Guatemala that says if you pass through a country that's not your own seeking asylum, you have to make that asylum claim when the first country to pass through. That's the international norm, that's what we should do Joe Biden could reimpose all three of those things this week if you wanted to
The border is secure, the border is closed. Is it?  No, , of course not. The border is wide open. There are reports now Custom and Border Patrol may be directed to simply start processing people into the country without even giving them a notice to appear in court. And, of course, all of these bogus asylum claims are taking up so much manpower and resources of the border, that means that we also have other threats, like increases in fentanyl and other kinds of drug trafficking or persons on the terrorist watch list crossing to our border The border right now is wide open because the Biden administration dismantled the very effective policies of the Trump administration and the agreements we had with Mexico and other Latin American countries
I want to turn to another subject, Senator. You've voted against the $. trillion COVID relief package. And I want to put up some of the things that it would do for Arkansas. It would provide stimulus payments of up to $, to  percent of adults in your state, and  percent of children in your state. It would also provide $. billion for schools in Arkansas, grades K-. Senator, are you saying that the people of your state don't need that money?  Well, , that bill would do a lot of other things as well. You know, we've been talking about what causes border crisis. Look at a couple other provisions in that bill. For instance, stimulus checks to illegal aliens as well, or money to sanctuary cities. Those are the kinds of incentives that help migrants come to our border. More broadly though, , we worked together last year with the Democrats in the Trump administration to pass multiple bills to help the American people get through this pandemic. Many of those bills passed unanimously. We did one in December as well. The conditions of course have changed now. Vaccines are spreading across the country, case rates are declining rapidly. Republicans had no problem providing more money for vaccine distribution, for instance, or to help people who have lost income. But we shouldn't be spending $ trillion on a lot of unrelated Democratic priorities or sending money to families that haven't lost any income That's what this bill did
Here is one of your other complaints about the COVID relief bill. Take a look, sir 
 Look how crazy some of the Democratic ideas are. I mean, they had a chance on Saturday morning to stop checks from going to prisoners, from going to the Boston bomber, for instance, and on that note, they declined. Every single Democrat wanted to continue the practice of sending checks to prisoners. 
 But, Senator, under two previous COVID relief bills that you supported and voted for and that President Trump signed, prisoners also got checks in those bills
Well, , that was obviously never Congress' intent. The Trump administration, IRS and Treasury Department did not send checks to prisoners. Liberal advocacy groups sued to try to force that, a liberal judge said they had to. Last month was the first -- or this month was the first time we ever had a simple up or down vote on whether those checks should go to prisoners, and the simple fact is that every Democrat voted to keep sending checks to prisoners. I don't think that's a smart idea I suspect most Americans don't either
One of the next big pieces of legislation that President Biden is working on is going to be an even bigger $ trillion, $ trillion, $ trillion infrastructure plan. And I want to look at some of the infrastructure needs that Arkansas has -- . percent of the bridges in Arkansas are structurally deficient,  dams have high hazard potential. Drinking water needs in your state, $. billion. President Biden wants to pay for this plan at least in part by raising taxes on people making more than $, a year and to raise the corporate tax rate from  percent up to  percent. Would you support -- I mean, aren't the needs in Arkansas sufficiently urgent that you could support taxing people making more than $, and raising the tax rate on corporations, which is still lower than when -- would still be lower than when President Trump came into office to pay for that?  , we have infrastructure needs in Arkansas, like every state does. But I suspect based on what effort my Democratic friends in the Senate that this bill is not going to be geared to alerts those needs, it's going to be geared towards big tax increases and implementing something like the Green New Deal. Now, if you think your gas bills have gone up a lot recently, wait until you see what you pay at the pump after the Democrats do that. We can do this kind of bill, though, , without big tax hikes. The reason we are talking about an infrastructure bill right now is that the last bill we passed is about to expire into this year and we passed that bill in  with more than  votes in the United States Senate, without tax increases, because  we focused on a lot of the problems we have with infrastructure in this country, like excessively burdensome and lengthy and cumbersome permitting and regulatory and environmental approval processes. , you probably know that the Pentagon was built in  months in the s. It took the government years to repair a bridge in front of the Pentagon that just runs a couple hundred feet. The problems that we have in this country is not that we don't have enough money for infrastructure It's that it costs too much and that we spend too much on things that are not roads and bridges and broadband access
Right. Finally, I've got about a minute left here, sir. President Biden talked this week about trying to reform -- not end, but to reform the filibuster so that senators have to keep talking around the clock in order to continue the filibuster and to stop the legislation. Take a look at President Biden 
 I don't think you have to limit the filibuster. You have to do it what it used to be when I first got to the Senate, and you had to stand up and command the floor. Once you stop talking, you lost that and someone can move in and say, I move the question of. 
 There has been an explosion in filibusters,  cloture motions to end debate, many of them not successful but  between  and . Since , , cloture motions and as I say, many of them didn't end the filibuster, they were just attempts to. Senator, you know, at some point, maybe as soon as two years from now, you Republicans are going to be back in the majority. Isn't there something to be said for more legislating and less gridlock?  No, , there is something to be said for compromise and bipartisanship and respect for the rights of the minority in the Senate. These rules have been in place since the beginning of our republic, and the Democrats are engaging in pretty highly situational ethics. You know, just four years ago,  Democrats wrote a letter urging Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer to maintain these rules. Now, most of those senators have flip-flopped simply because they have the barest of majorities. Republicans refused to change those rules four years ago because we respect these traditions in the Senate and we know they've helped forge durable, bipartisan consensus legislation
Senator Cotton, thank you. Thanks for coming in today. Always good to talk with you  Thank you, 
Not and but to reform the filibuster so that senators have to keep talking around the clock in order to continue the filibuster and to stop the legislation. Take a look at President Biden 
 I don't think you have to eliminate the filibuster, you have to do it what it used to be when I first got to the Senate. You had to stand up and command the floor. Once you stop talking, you lost that and someone could move in and say I move the question of. 
 There has been an explosion and filibusters. Three hundred and fifty-seven cloture motions to end debate, many of them not successful, but  between  and . Since , , cloture motions. And as I say, many of them didn't end the filibuster, they were just attempts to. Senator, you know, at some point, maybe as soon as two years from now, you, Republicans, are going to be back in the majority. Isn't there something to be said for more legislating and less gridlock?  No -- no, , there's something to be said for compromise and bipartisanship and respect for the rights of the minority in the Senate. These rules have been in place since the beginning of our republic. And these Democrats are engaged in pretty highly, situational ethics. You know, just four years ago  Democrats still in the Senate wrote a letter urging Mitch McConnell and Chuck Schumer to maintain these rules. Now, most of those senators have flip-flopped simply because they have the barest of majorities
Right  Republicans refused to change those rules four years ago because we respect these traditions in the Senate and we know they've helped forge durable, bipartisan consensus legislation
Senator Cotton, thank you. Thanks for coming in today. Always good to talk with you  Thank you, 
Up next we'll bring in our Sunday group to discuss the battle over the border and the growing debate in the Senate about whether to change the filibuster. But first, next month marks the th anniversary of FOX NEWS SUNDAY. We're planning a special hour to mark the occasion. And ahead of that, we want to start bringing you some memorable moments in this program's history 
 So you're known as a master negotiator, but didn't you mess this one up? Dr. Rice, all the talk about the nuclear program, all the talk about aluminum tubes was wrong.  The intelligence at the time and -- and, , it is a fact that you can only act today on what you knew yesterday
Back when Republicans were in the minority, you liked to call them the party of no Today, aren't you?   
 Coming up, some Democrats look to change the filibuster to get their legislative agenda through. 
 I say to the defenders of the filibuster, try to defend what's happened on the floor of the Senate the last two years, almost nothing. 
 We'll ask our Sunday panel about the debate over its future, next. 
 We're not going to send a -year- old back across the border. That was the policy of the last administration. That's not our policy here.  How long will these children be here? What countries have they come from and what COVID variants have they been exposed to? 
 White House Press Secretary  defending the Biden policy of allowing unaccompanied minors into the country and Texas Governor Abbott warning of the dangers. And it's time now for our Sunday group. Guy Benson of Fox News Radio, Catherine Lucey, who covers the White House for "The Wall Street Journal," and Charles Lane from "The Washington Post." Catherine, I think it's fair to say that the Biden administration very much wanted to focus on two issues, both related to the pandemic, in his opening months. First of all, the public health crisis, how to deal with that. Also the economic fallout. How unprepared were they for this crisis, whatever they want to call it, at the border? And while I'm happy that they put Secretary Mayorkas on several Sunday shows today, given their desire to talk about other things, why do you think they did it?  Well, I think you're right, , that absolutely with the administration had wanted to talk about and has been trying to talk about in recent days is the COVID- legislation that was passed, the relief that is coming to Americans. You've seen the president out on the road trying to promote that this week in several cities, and he's going to continue to do that. And they still do see that as an important priority. But, yes, they are on the defensive. And you saw that earlier in the show today with Secretary Mayorkas on how they're dealing with the border. In terms of preparedness, you know, they're -- they are talking about how they are trying to get additional resources there, they are opening, you know, FEMA -- FEMA's opening additional centers. They're working on getting more beds. You know, they are pointing, as the secretary did, to the idea that the previous administration left them with problems to clean up. But certainly they're facing a lot of criticism that they should have been better prepared for this
Guy, Republicans, not surprisingly, are jumping on this issue to go after President Biden and to go after congressional Democrats. Here is House Republican Leader Kevin McCarthy at the border this week 
 It's more than a crisis. This is a human heartbreak. The sad part about all of this, it didn't have to happen. This crisis is created by the presidential policies of this new administration. 
 Guy, how potent an issue for Republicans to attack President Biden and Democrats?  Well, it's a significant issue and it's a huge failure from the Biden administration. There's no question about that. I'm still sort of reeling from your interview with Secretary Mayorkas. He said some unbelievable things, literally, in response to your question, saying that the border is secure. I don't think anyone actually believes that. He also, in response to one of your questions, said, there is no connection between this huge spike in illegal immigration and the rhetoric and policies of the Biden administration. That's insulting. That's completely ludicrous. So this is a crisis of the making of the Biden administration. 
They're denying the crisis and they're blaming it on the previous administration, whose succeeding policies in -- in some key areas they've discarded with no other plan in place. It's -- it's pretty wild
Chuck, I want to pick up on that because it is, in fact, the case that the numbers were rising in the final eight, nine months of the Trump administration. But then, as we pointed out in the interview with Secretary Mayorkas, you see the sharp spike in the number of people overall coming across the border, and especially of unaccompanied minors. 
Wasn't it entirely foreseeable that particularly after President Biden relaxed some of these measures, for instance Title , allowing non-Mexican minors to come and stay, wasn't it entirely foreseeable that you would end up with exactly what we see now?  I lived in Central America for three years early in my career, long before social media and cell phones, and I can tell you, even then people in that part of the world were exquisitely aware in great detail of all the factors and changes in policy in the United States that might affect their chances of migrating to this country. 
So I'm sure that since , when the migration started to be held back by President Trump, they have been watching carefully for any signal that the situation might change to favor migration. Furthermore, we can't overlook the push factors. We've been talking a lot about the pull factor on the side of the border The economies in Central America have collapsed under the pressure of the global pandemic and the economic crisis it brought on
Right  So surely people would have seen that that in itself would have been a factor stimulating more migration
Let's turn to the filibuster and the increasing talk about, if not ending it, certainly reforming it. And there was tough talk on the Senate floor this week. Take a look 
 Today's filibuster has turned the world's most deliberative body into one of the world's most ineffectual bodies
Nobody serving in this chamber can even begin -- can even begin to imagine what a completely scorched earth Senate would look like 
 Catherine, I've got about a minute left in this segment. How much pressure is President Biden under from the left wing of his party to do something about the filibuster? So beyond budget things that he can pass on a simple majority, he can pass things like immigration reform or gun control or voting rights reform?  Certainly, , there's a growing call among a lot of Democrats that something should be done to change the filibuster. And I think it was noteworthy that we sought in an interview with the president this week that he indicated he -- he could support some changes, like going to a so-called talking filibuster. The fact that we're hearing that from the president, who really, as you well know, is a creature of the Senate, someone who respects the rules. I think that was very significant. You know, he said during that interview that, you know, democracy is having a hard time functioning. And I think that's something you might hear more from Democrats in the coming weeks
Yes. And if you wonder what a talking filibuster is, just go -- and there are a lot of reasons to do it -- go watch the movie "Mr. Smith Goes to Washington." You will see Jimmy Stewart up all night filibustering. That's what they talk about, a talking filibuster. Now you just say, we're going to filibuster and everybody goes about their business. Panel, we have to take a break here. Up next, President Biden urges Congress to pass hate crime legislation to address rising violence against Asian-Americans after that deadly mass shooting in Atlanta 
 For the last year, we've had people in positions of incredible power scapegoating Asian- Americans. People with the biggest pulpits spreading this kind of hate. 
 Vice President Harris reacting to the rise in hate crimes against Asian-Americans, which has coincided with the COVID pandemic this past year. And we're back now with the panel. Chuck, while there is some question as to whether this specific attack was racially motivated or not, the -- one group says that there have been , hate incidents in the last year, some of them racial slurs, name calling, some of them actual assaults against Asian-Americans. 
 What do you think is going on here?  I think something very terrible and disturbing that we all ought to be concerned about is going on. You know, it shows that even a highly successful group in general, and Asian-Americans are by all sort of economic measures a highly successful group in the United States, can still be a despised group or hated group by some people. And, you know, it's a -- it's a situation that's been very acute in the Bay area recently. 
 There are a number of very disturbing incidents, murders, assaults, particularly of elderly Asian people who are sometimes singled out, stereotyped as people who are vulnerable and easy targets for robbery. There's a multiplicity of motivations going on and not necessarily every attacker fits the profile of, you know, a white supremacist or a Trump supporter or something like that. There's -- there's a real need to gather facts and to take really tough law enforcement action to make sure that this really stops
Guy, you saw that clip of Vice President Harris at the top of the segment, and a -- I think it was pretty clear she was drawing a link between these attacks and President Trump, and especially his talk about the China virus and kung flu. Do you think that's fair?  I don't. I think that you're right to point out that we still don't have concrete evidence that this horrific massacre in Atlanta had anything to do with race. There were apparently other factors at play. 
We should gather facts, as Chuck said. We should also condemn unequivocally any violence or racism against any group or people. That should go without saying, but it needs to be said over and over again. I do sort of wonder what the rules are in terms of what we're allowed to say or not say when describing where this virus originated. It was in Wuhan, China. We talked about the Brazilian variant. We talk about the U.K. variance. We talk about the South African variant. 
Talking about the Wuhan flu or the China virus, or what have you, I'm not sure if that's a direct line between that description and attacks on Asian people. Of course, that should never happen. There's no excuse for it ever I think this seems like a pretty cheap political shot
Catherine, I want to change subjects. Still another woman, another woman coming out and accusing New York Governor Andrew Cuomo of harassment. And this may be the most damaging accusation yet. You -- on the screen, Alyssa McGrath still works in the governor's office and she backs up the most serious allegation against Cuomo from another woman who still works in the office who says that Cuomo actually groped her. 
I guess the question, Catherine, is, when -- when does this reach a tipping point for Cuomo and his survival in office?  It's a real question, . And, you're right, this is a serious allegation. You know, it's one of many and it comes from a current aid, which is significant. You know, what we've seen from Democrats so far is that, you know, in the state, most Democrats have called for him to resign. But one thing to look at as we think about a tipping point and what's next is that polling suggests that a majority of people in the state aren't looking for the governor to go yet. We had a poll out -- there was a poll out this week that said that about half of New York -- New York state residents were not looking for that. So I think we have to see how it unfolds within the state still But we also did hear from President Biden this week with, you know, more detail than we've heard from him in the past saying that if an investigation proves that these allegations are true, then the governor should go
Chuck, I'm going to pick up on that because the governor says I'm going to stand firm and wait for the state attorney general's report took come out. She's no particular friend of the governor, so you would figure it's pretty independent. 
And while there's a growing number of top Democratic officials who are calling for Cuomo to resign, you also have some, former Congressman Chuck Rangel, saying he, like every American, deserves due process. So how do you see this playing out? Can he hang on at least until the investigation comes out?  Well, I know that he's determined to hang on. He's been very emphatic that he's not going to resign. 
And looking into those -- the internals of those poll numbers, what you see is that majorities of Democrats, rank-and- file Democrats, not the political leadership who have been speaking out, don't think he should be impeached or have to resign. And that's what he's banking on, that he can somehow ride this out. I think from Cuomo's point of view, and perhaps not inaccurately, he sees this as the result of a big, internal fight that he's had with the left wing of the Democratic Party going back a long time. I'm not at all suggesting that the allegations are incorrect or politically motivated, but I think that he, when he thinks about his decision to resign or not, does look at it in terms of his own long-standing quarrels with Mayor de Blasio of New York and some of these other folks  It has been interesting, Guy, you've got about  seconds here, to see some of these Democrats who Cuomo has ticked off over the years, like de Blasio, sticking the knife in
Yes, they like to see him gone. He is shameless and arrogant. He wants to hang on. And I think it's not just about these allegations, it's also about the nursing home scandal and cover-up. That's the biggest story, I think And we're sometimes losing sight of that
Thank you, panel. See you next Sunday. Up next, our "Power Player of the Week," the artist whose virtual creation turned him into an actionable multimillionaire 
 It's a kind of Cinderella story for the modern world of art, a computer programmer who drew a picture a day, wound up etching himself into art history and making millions in the process. Here's our "Power Player of the Week."   
 It's really an exciting time for -- to be a digital artist and just for art history in general. We're watching the closing of the auction.  Mike Winkelmann, known as Beeple, on the moment he sold a piece of digital art at auction for a record $ million
I'm going to Disney World!  How was it to be watching this auction?  It's was very surreal. It sort of jumped from like  million to  million. It was literally just like a bomb went off in the room  The piece, called "Everydays -- The First  Days," is a collage of images people made every day for  years
The , days covers from May , , all the way to January ,  It's really something that sort of catalogs both my life over that time and sort of things that have happened in the world over that time
The images referenced pop culture and politics. And some are pretty weird. And the sale marks a new era in arts. It was sold as what's called a non-fungible token, or NFT It's a virtual collectible, not a physical one
What exactly are you buying with an NFT?  There's a bunch of different analogies. Say like an MP. Like a bunch of people can have copies of the MP. You know, Michael Jackson's "Thriller" But it's very different from owning the master recording
If I can download "Everydays" and put it on my computer --  Yes  Or printed it and put a frame around it --  Sure
What's the difference between what I have and what the person with the NFT has?  The person with the NFT has the NFT and everybody sort of agrees that that is the person who owns it  But for all his talk of virtual assets, people didn't waste a minute converting his cryptocurrency into cold hard cash
By Friday night, the guy -- it's a guy in Singapore, had the artwork and I had the money. And it was totally done. Open up the -- the thing, $ million in my bank account. Like, boom, done, the next day  Beeple was already a big name in digital art
I started releasing a bunch of VJ clips, concert visuals and things like that. If you've been to like an electronic music, you know, show in the last ten years, you've probably seen these clips before I'm sure you've been to a lot of those in the last ten years
Why do you laugh when you say that, Beeple? Why do you laugh when you say that? I -- I, frankly --  I did When was the last electronic music show you went to?  I'm asking the questions here, not you!  While Beeple is in the Vanguard of NFT art, he acknowledges some of this will last and some won't
How certain are you that this isn't a bubble that is just going to burst someday?  I absolutely think it's a bubble, to be quite honest. I go back to the analogy of the beginning of the Internet. There was a bubble. And the bubble burst. And it wiped out a lot of crap. But it didn't wipe out the Internet. And so the technology itself is strong enough where I think it's going to outlive that 
 Beeple is working on new ways to display his digital art and is still creating one new piece every day. And that's it for today. Have a great week and we'll see you next FOX NEWS SUNDAY. 
 I'm . President Biden tries to keep the country focused on the pandemic, but new crises keep intruding. 
 When an unaccompanied child ends up at the border, we're just going to let him starve to death and stay in the other side? I'm not going to do it
From the situation on the southern border with Mexico, to back-to-back mass shootings that have reignited the nation's debate over guns, the president has to deal with new challenges and signals he's open to big changes in the Senate to push through his agenda  Our preoccupation with the filibuster is totally legitimate
We'll discuss Mr Biden's next steps with White House Press Secretary , then get reaction from Republican Senator Lindsey Graham
and Graham, only on "FOX News Sunday" Plus, Georgia approves sweeping new rules for how its elections are run and braces for legal challenges
What I'm worried about is how un-American this whole initiative is It's sick
We'll ask our Sunday panel about the battle over voting rights. And our "Power Players of the Week," the real people behind those cardboard fans in the stands. All, right now, on "FOX News Sunday" 
 And hello again from FOX News in Washington. Joe Biden talked at his conference this week about how successful presidents know how to roll out their agenda, to prioritize what issues to push and in what order. 
 That's what he's tried to do his first two months in office, keep the focus on the pandemic, both the public health crisis and the impact on the economy. But now, other issues are demanding attention -- the crisis at the border, two mass shootings, and the battle over voting rights. And like all presidents, Mr. Biden has to respond. In a moment, we'll sit down with White House Press Secretary , but first, let's turn to Mark Meredith, traveling with the president in Wilmington, Delaware -- Mark
, this week, President Biden will lay out a new economic agenda for the country with a major focus expected to be on infrastructure, but the White House faces plenty of other issues which have the potential to derail the president's plan 
 President Biden will travel to Pittsburgh Wednesday to urge lawmakers to spend trillions of dollars rebuilding America's roads, bridges, and airports
We ranked th globally in infrastructure China is investing three times more infrastructure than the United States is
To play for his plans, the president is expected to call for tax hikes on corporations and wealthier Americans. Republicans are already revolting  They should call this a grab your wallet bill or this is going to be to raise your taxes bill?  Instead of infrastructure, some people want the president to spend more time focusing on the border where a surge of migrants is overwhelming government resources
They need to come down here, they need to listen, and they need to learn  The White House says it's working on a better border strategy, the president tasking the vice president to lead the effort
Thank you, Mr President, and for having the confidence in me, and there's no question that this is a challenging situation
But more challenges remain ahead. Many parents are fed up with continuing school closures, North Korea is testing more rockets, and the gun control debate is back after deadly massacres in Georgia and Colorado 
 One bright spot, the administration is doubling its goal for the rollout of the coronavirus vaccine. It now hopes to have  million doses distributed by the end of April, right around the time the president is set to mark  days in office -- 
Mark Meredith reporting from Delaware -- Mark, thank you. And joining us now, White House Press Secretary . Jen, welcome back to "FOX News Sunday"  Great to be here, 
Nothing has changed It happens every year
We are on pace to encounter more individuals on the southwest border then we have in the last  years. So, who's wrong? The DHS secretary or the president?  Well, , first, factually, there was an increase of about  percent of people coming to the border during the final months of the Trump administration. 
There's been about a  percent increase since President Biden took office. But our focus is on solutions. This past week we reopen -- or we opened I should say several facilities that will provide almost , beds so that we can move these children from the Border Patrol facilities into shelters. We've also taken steps to expedite processing at the border. 
The border remains closed It is not open, we are turning away the majority of adults but what we're really talking about here is children and how we're handling that in the safest and most humane capacity
You know, you can play with percentages, but in absolute numbers, these are record numbers. There are now , unaccompanied minors in U.S. custody There are new records being set,  to  each day
Well, , our objective is to take a different approach from the last of administration. We are not going to send children under the age of , kids under the age of , back on this treacherous journey. They are fleeing challenging economic circumstances, hurricanes, prosecution in some scenarios. It does not mean that they get to stay in the United States. 
It means their cases are adjudicated and we want to treat them humanely, make sure they are in a safe place while their cases are adjudicated That's what we're talking about here
The president and you have both been in pains over these first two months to talk about how to pledge that you're going to be transparent with the American people. But here's what he said in his news conference about allowing reporters in to see specifically the facilities that are being run by Customs and Border Patrol. Take a look 
 This is being set up and you have full access to everything once we get this thing moving
Just to be clear, how soon will that be, Mr. President?  I don't know 
 The only way we know how bad conditions are for some , minors in his Border Patrol facilities is because of these pictures that members of Congress have released on their own. Jen, these kids are living in these conditions now. They're not living in these conditions some indeterminate time from now when the president says everything will be fixed. So why not allow reporters and camera crews in on a pool basis safely to take pictures and show the American people what's happening in those Border Patrol facilities right now?  , we're absolutely committed to that, the president is committed to that, I'm committed to that, Secretary Mayorkas is committed to that. Just last week, we had a pool camera --  When?  -- including -- allowing -- providing footage to FOX News just last week into the shelters. We want to provide access into the Border Patrol facilities. We are mindful of the fact that we are in the middle of a pandemic. We want to keep these kids safe, keep the staff safe. But we -- we are absolutely committed to transparency and providing access to media to the Border Patrol facilities and we're working to get that done as soon as we can
But just to clarify, Jen, you allowed a camera crew in to see the HHS facilities What we're talking about here --    Uh-huh
-- are the Border Patrol facilities, the detention cells, you know --    I --    -- there is a law -- let me just finish -- that they are not allowed to be there for more than  hours, many of them are there for ten days At this point, in terms of allowing access to Border Patrol facilities for reporters, you are being less transparent than the Trump administration
Well, first of all, , the Trump administration was turning away kids at the border, sending them back on the treacherous journey, or they were ripping kids from the arms of their parents. We're not doing that. We are committed to allowing cameras into the Border Patrol facilities, absolutely. I would also say we are committed to solutions. That's why I noted that we reopened or opened three facilities that have almost , beds to allow for processing these kids more quickly out of the Border Patrol facilities. We absolutely agree these are not places for children and our focus is on solutions and moving them as quickly as possible. We're also making sure we are processing kids more quickly at the border. Some of these kids come with a phone number and a pocket. It might be of a parent We want to make sure we are breaking through the red tape and getting them to their parents as quickly as possible
Let me switch subjects with you. The president has come out strongly for the voting rights bill that has passed the House and is now being deliberated by the Senate. But look at some of the things that are in HR-, the House voting rights bill. It creates public financing of congressional campaigns. It takes redistricting away from state legislatures and it opens the door to D.C. becoming a state. Now, you can argue whether these are good ideas or bad ideas, but to get bipartisan agreement, to get compromise with Republicans, would the president consider supporting taking some of those elements out and focusing just on voting rights?  Well, the president is absolutely open to the idea from Republicans, from Democrats, to make any piece of legislation better and stronger. But what is not going to allow for its efforts to make it more difficult and harder to vote and efforts to do that, people should question whether they have -- why they would be doing that? If they have the best ideas, they should make it easier for people to vote But you know, this is the process of a bill becoming a law --   
 , if Republicans want to come to the table have a discussion about what kind of package they can support to make voting more easy, easier and more success accessible, the president is absolutely open to having that discussion
Some Democrats are urging the president to push to kill the Senate filibuster in order to pass legislation to protect voting rights. Here's what the president said about that this week 
 If there's complete lockdown and chaos as a consequence of the filibuster, then we'll have to go beyond what I'm talking about. 
 But, while the president says that the filibuster is a relic of the Jim Crow era, here's what Joe Biden said when he was in the Senate himself. Take a look. 
 At its core, the filibuster is not about stopping a nominee or a bill. It's about compromise and moderation. 
 And just last year, Kamala Harris, when she was in the Senate, led the filibuster against Republican Senator Tim Scott, an African- American, his plan for police reform. So, is the filibuster racist? Is it wrong?  As the president said just last week, , it's been abused, and in the first  years of the filibuster being around, it was used about  times. 
 It was used five times that many last year. The president doesn't think that's how the filibuster should be used. There's an easy solution here, though, which the president would certainly advocate for, which is Democrats and Republicans, Republicans coming to the table with a willingness and an openness to discussing how we get things done. They want to come the table and talk about how to make voting easier, more accessible, let's have that conversation. The president is eager to have it. He's not eager to move with destroying the filibuster. He's eager to get things done for the American people, but he's also not going to stand by and prevent forward moving progress from happening. So that's what people heard from him last week
I just want to point out, because some people noted it after the news conference, if you're talking about abuse of the filibuster over the last two years, the Democrats were in the minority, so they were the ones abusing it. I agree, it's been used by both parties. 
I want to move on to the mass shootings in Atlanta and Boulder, Colorado, in the last couple of weeks, and since then, there has been a new push for gun controls. But Mr. Biden said, and I mentioned it at the top of the program, that one of the keys to being a successful president is understanding how to prioritize your agenda. Take a look 
 The other problems we're talking about from immigration to guns and the other things you mentioned are long-term problems. They've been around a long time. 
 Some gun control and immigration advocates are -- pushed back on that and said, it sounds like the president is saying these are long-term problems, wait your turn
Well, first, the president has been an advocate for gun safety measures throughout his career. He helped pass the Brady Bill into law, increasing background checks when he was in the Senate. He helped get an assault weapons ban in place. He led the effort in the Obama-Biden administration to put in place a dozen -- two dozen executive actions when bipartisan legislation failed. He's not new to this issue. It's an issue he will continue to advocate for. And, , 
 percent of the public supports universal background checks. That's something the Senate should be able to move forward on and that the president will continue to push for. He knows that as president, you've got to walk and chew gum You got to do multiple things at the same time and he's ready to do that
Finally, as we said at the top of the program, the president is going to lay out his -- the next part of his economic recovery program in a speech in Pittsburgh this week, including infrastructure, education, child care, a number of issues. Is that going to be just one huge bill, or is it going to be split up into two parts? And how big is the total price tag going to be?  rescue and then recovery. What the American people will hear from him this week is that part of his plan, the first step of his plan towards recovery which will include an investment in infrastructure, we shouldn't be th in the world, I don't think anyone believes that the wealthiest, most innovative country in the world. And he's going to have more to say later in April about the second part of his recovery plan, which will include a number of the pieces you talked about -- health care, child care, addressing that. It's a crisis right now. The number of women who have left the workforce, he wants to help to address that The total package we're still working out, but he's going to introduce some ways to pay for that, and he's eager to hear ideas from both parties as well
So, are we talking about two separate bills? And if so, just briefly, because we're out of time, is he hoping that infrastructure he can get past with Republican votes, and then he sticks what we're hearing is going to be $ trillion in tax cuts in the second package, and then pass that through reconciliation on a straight Democratic Party line vote?  
Well, we're not quite at the legislative strategy yet, , but I will say that I don't think Republicans in this country think we should be th in the world as it relates to infrastructure. Roads, railways, rebuilding them, that's not a partisan issue. That's a lot of what the president will talk about this Wednesday. Then he will have another package, another proposal that he will put forward in just a couple of weeks that will address a lot of issues that American people are struggling with -- child care, the cost of health care. So that's what they can expect to hear from him in April  But just to lock down, two separate bills, correct?  Two separate proposals and we'll work with the Senate and the House to see how it should move forward
Jen, thank you. Thanks for your time this weekend Please come back
Thank you, . My pleasure Thank you
Up next, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham just back from a trip to our southern border How does he think we should handle the surge in illegal immigration? 
 President Biden says he makes no apologies for rolling back some of the Trump administration's immigration policies. And joining us now from South Carolina, Republican Senator Lindsey Graham, who is just back from a trip to the U.S. border with Mexico.  Yes
Senator, you were part of a delegation of Republican senators that went down to the border on Friday. How serious is the surge of people illegally across the border, especially of these unaccompanied minors, and what can you tell us about the conditions for those minors, especially the ones being held in Border Patrol facilities?  Well, number one, you've got a facility designed for  kids with about a thousand in it, so that's pretty bad. He needs to apologize, President Biden, to the Border Patrol agents and their families for putting them through this. We're being overwhelmed with the border. It's not a crisis, it's a complete loss of sovereignty down there. I've been twice, in the last two months, and here's what I learned this time that was different than last time. I had a two star Border Patrol supervisor tell me that they briefed the Biden transition team that if you do away with the Remaining in Mexico policy, where people have to wait in Mexico for their court date regarding asylum, we'll be overwhelmed. If you change the policy regarding unaccompanied minors, we will be overwhelmed. They were told this. They did it anyway. And the description I heard by the press secretary about the border reminded me a lot of what Baghdad Bob was saying about the Iraqi War. She needs to go down there. These facilities are being overrun Ten percent of the people are COVID positive, the -- the -- the children, and they're very intermingled and Border Patrol agents and their families are American heroes
Right. Senator, you say that the Biden policies are a magnet for illegal immigration/  Yes
But I want to ask you about a bill that you are proposing. The Secure and Protect Act would mandate asylum claims from the northern triangle countries must be filed there in those countries or Mexico, not in the U.S  Right
But it also says if families cross the border seeking asylum, which would be illegal, they can stay together for  days, not   Right
I can understand the humanitarian instinct behind that, but wouldn't that also be a magnet for illegal immigration?  No, because I wrote this bill with input from the Border Patrol people, the agents and customs folks. They said, under our current law, you can hold an unaccompanied -- a minor for  days. So we want to keep families together, not separate them. They told me if they had  days with additional judges, 
they could render verdicts in the asylum claims and never let the families go. What she said is very -- is going to make the problem worse, in your last interview. She said that any unaccompanied minor that comes with a phone number, we're going to call the parents who are here in this country legally and reunite the family. So we're going to have a flood based on this interview. All these kids have numbers on their wrist. Well, they already have parents or family members here illegally. Now we're going to reunite them. We're not going to turn -year-olds away. Well, Jeh Johnson, during the Obama administration, was on a plane sending unaccompanied minors back to their home country. You need to do two things. You need to make sure nobody is released until their case is adjudicated in the United States, you should keep them in Mexico or their home country, and you should be turning every unaccompanied minor away after they've been tested for human trafficking abuse back to their home country and it will stop this If you don't, we'll have , a month by this summer
Senator, I want to change subjects on you -- on you. President Biden has come down hard on Republican legislators in traditionally red states voting to restrict voting rights. Take a look at what he said in his news conference 
 What I'm worried about is how un-American this whole initiative is. It's sick. It's sick. 
 Senator, are Republicans going too far in some of these various states?  You know what's sick is have the president of the United States to play the race card continuously in such a hypocritical way. He said the filibuster was a relic of the Jim Crow era. 
 Well, he made an hour speech when he was a senator suggesting the filibuster was the best thing for the Senate to make it different in the House. This is a letter signed by  senators in , when we had the House, the Senate, and the White House,  Democrats saying please keep in place the filibuster. What's sick is HR , federalizing state elections. 
 In our Constitution, states are supposed to run elections. H.R.  is the biggest power grab in the history of the country. It institutionalizes ballot harvesting. It does away with the voter ID requirement. It will take over every election in every state. It makes the Federal Election Commission a partisan commission. It will no longer be bipartisan. So that's the power grab we're standing up to. To my friends in Georgia, they had the highest turnout in the history of Georgia. We had  million something people vote. So every time a Republican does anything, we're a racist. If you're a white conservative, you're a racist. If you're a black Republican, you're either a prop or Uncle Tom. They use the racism card to advance a liberalism agenda and we're tired of it. H.R.  is sick, not what they're doing in Georgia
All right, well, let's take a look at some of the provisions in Georgia. And -- and these are specific ones that a lot of people are having heartburn about, Senator It would limit the number and location of drop boxes
Good.  p.m., before a lot of working people get off and could go vote. And this is the one that I think is creating the biggest fuss, it prohibits, it makes it a crime to give food or drink to voters waiting in line. Senator, why on earth, if Americans are willing to wait in hours to vote, would you make it a crime for people to come and give them a bottle water?  Well, we -- all I can say is that that doesn't make a whole lot of sense to me. I agree with you there. But, in Georgia, you had an explosion of mail-in balloting. The Carter- Baker Commission in  looked at our election system and they had two warnings for us. Absentee mail voting is ripe for fraud and ballot harvesting where an individual can collect ballots on behalf of other people is a threat to democracy as we know it. Both of those provisions are in H.R. . So if you don't like what they're doing in Georgia, you can go to court and stop them. But what they're doing with H.R  is destroying the ability of any state to run elections, doing away with voter idea, changing the Federal Election Commission to make it partisan and institutionalizing national ballot harvesting, which would be a disaster to our elections
New subject. After the terrible mass shootings over the last two weeks, President Biden has made it clear, and --and Democrats have made it clear there's going to be a new push for gun legislation. Here was your reaction to that along with the reaction from Vice President Harris 
 Every time there's a tragic shooting in this country, the left uses it as a reason to grab a gun of a lawful gun owner
Stop pushing the false choice that this means everybody's trying to come after you guns. That is not what we're talking about 
 Senator, first of all, the two bills that the House has passed, that the Senate is now considering, have to do with background checks. They wouldn't take away your guns. And what's wrong with a serious debate after all of these shootings about assault weapons and especially about large capacity magazines, which a lot of studies show contribute to these mass killings?  There's nothing wrong about debates. 
 As a matter fact, I would challenge Senator Schumer to bring the assault weapons ban to the floor of the United States Senate. It won't get  votes, much less . I own an AR-. If there's a natural disaster in South Carolina where the cops can't protect my neighborhood, my house will be the last one that the gang will come to because I can defend myself. You don't have to have an AR-, but if you have one lawfully, I think you should be allowed to keep it. Most of these problems have a -- have a lot to do with mental health. Count me in for addressing that issue. Red flag laws exist in  states. There are some things we can do. But at the end of the day, if you think an assault weapons ban is what the country needs, bring it to the floor of the United States Senate and vote on it. I welcome that debate
Well, let me ask you about -- let me ask you about that, Senator, I've got about a minute left  OK
You are pushing a red flag bill and the idea would be if you've been adjudicated as being a danger to yourself or other people, then they can take away your gun But, as you know, there are some gun rights groups -- or gun rights groups that disagree with that and say that you're doing away with people's due process
Yes, they did  And I guess that's the question, is -- it seems like there's no possibility for any reform
Well, I think there is. There's a million people who have been adjudicated a danger to themselves or others at state court levels and the adjudications are not in the backroom system. Alice Bolton  was a person that was found not guilty by reason of insanity of trying to threaten President Bush. Her adjudication was not in the background system. She bought a gun and tried to kill people at a local school.
 I think most people would like to have these adjudications into the system and any red flag law has to have ample and robust due process. So count me in for dealing with the mental health aspects of this. Count me in for trying to have common sense background checks to get the best information into the system. And if you fail a background check, count me in for telling the local cops that the individual failed it But, you know, an assault weapons ban, bring it up, let's vote on it
Senator Graham, thank you. Thanks for joining us. Always good to talk with you, sir  Thank you
Up next, we'll bring in our Sunday group to discuss the fate of the Senate filibuster. But first, as we noted last week, next month marks the th anniversary of FOX NEWS SUNDAY. And ahead of that we're bringing you some memorable moments from this program's history. If you watch often, you know sometimes things get tense here 
 It was not acceptable. And so he's right, I was wrong
But you make it sound like you're a bystander, an eyewitness. You were the director of the FBI while a lot of this was going on, sir Do feel comfortable throwing out millions of votes of your fellow Americans? Let me just ask the question, if I may, and then --  Oh, go ahead, I'm sorry
OK. But -- well, no, I haven't. I'll -- there will be a question mark at the end 
 Coming up, President Biden calls on Congress to tighten gun controls in the wake of two mass shootings. 
 We have another epidemic in America called guns
When you disarm law-abiding citizens, you make them more likely to be victims 
 We'll ask our Sunday panel if any of the measures have the votes to pass, next. 
 An unaccompanied child ends up at the border, we're just going to let them starve to death and stay on the other side. No previous administration did that either, except Trump. I'm not going to do it. I'm not going to do it. 
 President Biden defending his administration policy of allowing unaccompanied minors from the northern triangle countries to stay in the U.S. And it's time now for our Sunday group. Senator Mitch McConnell's former chief of staff, Josh Holmes, "FOX NEWS AT NIGHT" anchor Shannon Bream, also author of the new book "The Women of the Bible Speak," former Democratic Congressman Harold Ford Jr. Shannon, I think it's fair to say the president flatly misstated what the Trump policy was for minors coming from Central America, far from letting them starve in the desert. The Trump policy was to charter repatriation flights and send them back to their home countries.  Yes, and I think it's important for the president to be very careful with the language that they use in talking about the border because there are going to be those who look and easily find misstatements like that one
told you earlier that the majority of adults are being turned around. Well, that can be true, but also this is true, the vast majority of family units or children who are showing up alone are not being turned away. That's according to numbers from the Border Patrol and from Health and Human Services. So those are coming from federal agencies and I think the White House, the president in particular, has to be very careful about the language he uses, the stats he cites, because so many of the things he said in his press conference the other day were demonstrably false And if this mainstream media had been about the former president and his veracity, you don't want to give the current media any -- any questions about what President Biden is now saying and being truthful and accurate about the border situation
Congressman, the president, whether in some cases he was right or sometimes he was misstating facts, blamed a lot, maybe all of the current problem now on the Trump administration. But, in fact, didn't President Biden contribute to this by changing a number of policies in the first days of his administration, especially allowing unaccompanied minors from Central America to stay in the country? And, secondly, what do you think on this issue of transparency about the administration's continued refusal, as we heard today from , to allow reporters in to see what the conditions are for minors in these Border Patrol facilities?  Well, first off, thanks for having me and Happy Palm Sunday and Happy Passover. There's no doubt there was a misstating early on from the outset, not calling it or not figuring out the right wording to describe what was happening and even the words around how policy might change. I do think, in fairness to -- to President Biden, that this issue at our border has predated him, predated his predecessor and predecessors before him. It's important to note, it's been  years since we've had a broad immigration reform bill. And the last time a president recognized that our hemisphere deserved more attention and the retargeted economic and developed aid it was under President Kennedy. 
Considering the fact that we spent billions, rightly so, to stabilize the Middle East, I think this administration will -- will -- will have to reckon with and hopefully be able to work with Republicans and Democrats to figure out some way to help stabilize our hemisphere here. I'm not a believer that separating families. And I was pleased to hear my old friend Senator Graham say that separating families is  the right thing to do. I also believe we have to secure the border. And Democrats will have to come around on that full throttle But I also believe that a different approach, not just trying to score cheap political points every six months or every two years, that can't be the policy going forward
Josh, let's turn to your old home base, the U.S. Senate. Quite a debate, increasing debate, over what -- about the filibuster, which this week President Biden called a relic of the Jim Crow era. Take a look 
 It's been abused from the time it came into being by an extreme way in the last  years. Let's deal with the abuse first. 
 Look, I understand that the concern of somebody like Lindsey Graham, and I'm sure of you, saying that this is somehow racist, Democrats have used it as much as Republicans have, that's not the real issue. The real issue is, has the filibuster gotten out of control? It seems like it's impossible now to pass any serious legislation without  votes, which makes it almost impossible in these polarized times
Yes, , I just fundamentally disagree with that. I mean if you look back to last year, you saw things like the CARES Act, the largest rescue program in the history of the country, pass with  plus votes. It went through several filibusters by Democrats before it ultimately became law. I think Democrats would argue in that sense it moderated and became more bipartisan. Yet now here we are. What it is, is despicable hypocrisy is what it is. When Democrats were in the minority, they had absolutely no problem utilizing the filibuster throughout the Trump administration. In fact, I got a lot of humor out of  telling you about the filibuster stats, all of which were Democrats using it against President Trump and Republicans, most notably blocking Tim Scott's police reform bill. So this -- this is not about reforming or making law or finding some bipartisan middle or even improving lives of Americans. What it's about is a partisan power play to try to implement election procedures that favor Democrats, to implement more states into the unions that are Democratic senators That is the whole substance of what Democrats are trying to accomplish here
But -- but, Congressman, you know, I can think of a lot of issues. It -- you know, it wasn't that hard to pass the CARES Act in the middle of a pandemic. When you talk about tough issues, like immigration reform or entitlement reform or whether to do something about guns, and I could go on and on, our country, our Congress, particularly the Senate, seems unable to deal with it. Is there a middle ground here so that bills don't go to die in the U.S. Senate?  I sincerely hope so. It's amazing, when you think about background checks, which you raised with Senator Graham,  percent of Americans support that. You can't find  percent of Americans who support world peace or taking a vaccine. You would think that the Senate and the Congress could find some common ground there. Look, my old friend Josh knows that traditions in the Senate can be -- can be violated and broken temporarily. Merrick Garland, who was denied a hearing before the U.S. Senate, is now the attorney general and Justice Barrett is a justice. That tradition was broken and changed. I hope they don't have to change the filibuster. I'm a believer that more votes always secures not only better policy but sustainable policy. So hopefully they can find a set of solutions or a solution to not only voting rights, but infrastructure and others, but I hope and pray that my friend Joe Biden understands that as much as he should respect the filibuster, elections have outcomes And I think the country will have an opportunity to weigh in, in a year and a half or so and see if Democrats have done right or if Democrats of done wrong by either voting them back into office or voting more Republicans into office
Right. All right, panel, we have to take a break here. But when we come back, the growing divide across the country over how our elections should be run 
 We're going to hear that this bill, gasp, register Americans to vote, is a democratic power grab
This is clearly an effort by one party to rewrite the rules of our political system

 Senate Democratic Leader Chuck Schumer and Republican Leader Mitch McConnell with very different interpretations of the massive voting rights bill that Democrats are pushing. And we're back now with the panel. Shannon, as you know, I talked with both  and with Senator Graham about the push for voting rights, both on the federal level and also bills that are passing at the state level. It seems that after all the controversy over the  election, that neither side wants to be at a disadvantage in the  midterms.  Yes, these federal and state measures couldn't be more different. They're on a bit of a collision course with each other as -- and both sides are working hard to get them passed. But one thing we see that the -- is a big question about H.R.  is that critics are saying, why would you supersede state laws? Why are you going to do things like, say, states cannot require voter ID for an absentee ballot? That's something that across ideological and all kinds of different backgrounds and different lines, people say Americans, well --  plus percentage points of them say that they actually support voter ID. They want to know that their vote isn't being disenfranchised in some way. So there are some common questions about why you would take that step. The Constitution, as we know, clearly gives states the rights to decide how they're going to run their election. So critics of H.R.  are going to say, the federal government is overstepping its boundaries and no matter what it's going to end up in court if it passes
Congressman, I'd like you to answer that, the question of federal interference in state elections. But having said that, also some of these state laws, the first one being passed in Georgia, which, as we talked about with Senator Graham, includes making it a crime to give somebody waiting in line for hours to vote a bottle of water. When you look at that, do you see voter suppression?  Sure. There are obvious flaws. In fact, I go -- and in Georgia law that I can't quite figure out after this Georgia secretary of state required two audits of the last election and found no evidence of voter fraud or irregularity, what would cause the governor and the state legislature to do what they did. They'll have to answer that to the voters there. I agree with Shannon, there should be voter ID. There should be identification for voters. But I would also add, we should expand the number of voting locations, we should expand the ease in which it comes with trying to get registered to vote and we should probably make voting day a national holiday. I remember the party of Newt Gingrich and Ronald Reagan, who believed that better ideas, not voter suppression, would advantage you at the polls. This Republican effort in Georgia, I hope it's stopped, and I'm not convinced that what the Democrats want to do with H.R.  should be the law of the land fully But I certainly like the thrust in the direction that's headed in as opposed to what happened in Georgia
Josh, we saw at the top of this segment the two Senate leaders, Schumer and McConnell, squaring off in a committee debate, which happens very, very seldom, which raises the question, just how high are the stakes for both sides after  and a lot of the issues about voting there when it comes to looking forward to what the rules are going to be for ?  Well, I mean, it's incredibly high. It's literally the difference between whether elections are competitive or not. You know, I hate that we have to continue to pretend that this is about voting rights. Making the Federal Election Commission a partisan panel, turning it into a prosecutor rather than a jury is nothing to do with voting rights. Making an election system entirely reliant on public taxpayer funding again has nothing to do with voting rights. All of these things the Democrats are trying to accomplish in the context of this H.R.  bill are just to advantage them at the polls. It has nothing to do with expanding access. As to Georgia, , the one piece that I would emphasize, because I've heard it a couple times on this program, that the idea that they've criminalized giving people bottles of water. They have not. What is in the statute, what is absolutely clear, is that they're preventing political organizations from giving people in line things, meals, water, what have you. Water is and should be provided at the polls for people who are standing in line We need to be very careful about what we're talking about here because Democrats have entirely misrepresented what's happened
Well, wait a minute, Josh. In fact, it does say that it bans providing water or food to people at the polls. Why would that be? I mean, I -- I know one of the arguments is, well, if people are at the polls, then an advocacy group can go in -- it's like you're near the election line and you're able to -- to election near them. My gosh, people have been driving people to the polls of both parties for years. In a lot of African-American communities, the polls are -- the lines are longer because there are not enough polls in those communities. Are you really suggesting that it should be wrong to provide water or drinks to people waiting in line to exercise a democratic franchise?  No, I'm not. What I'm suggesting is wrong is to suggest that the law does that. What it does --  Well, that's what the law says, Josh  It -- it --  That's what the law says, Josh
It -- it doesn't  Yes, it does
, it very specifically says that it can't be provided by political entities seeking to -- to -- one way or another influence an outcome of a vote. And I think there's a significant difference between that. You talk about people getting rides to the polls. Absolutely It's their choice to do that
What's a political entity? A person with a t-shirt?  When you're standing in --  A person with a union t-shirt? A person with a gun rights t-shirt?  Well, it -- well, I think what you saw in Georgia, and many other states, were examples of organizations that were funded to the hilt by dark money from liberal -- liberal entities across the country attempting to try to intimidate, or at least -- at least provide some presence at the polls. Now, you can argue whether that's the worst thing in the world. I don't think it's that big of a deal But there are states -- like six or seven states currently that we're not talking about that already have that on the books
Congressman, your response to that?  Well, the law, I think, clearly states what -- what you stated, . I would hope that if someone's grandson or niece decides to show up to bring them a soda pop or sandwich that they're not arrested Look, again, I retreat to where I was a minute ago
No one says --  I think politics is better served -- is that politics is better served when ideas and not efforts to restrict or constrain the rights of anyone to go out and vote. I was in politics. I wish I'd gotten a few more votes the last time I ran in Tennessee for senate. But I didn't complain that somehow another voter -- that there were too many people, too few people voted. I just didn't have enough good ideas. Republicans should retreat, come up with better ideas and you'll have a better chance of winning.  p.m., makes it impossible for you to go vote. It also limits the number of -- of drop off boxes. You know, I voted in the last election in drop off boxes I actually think making it easier for me to vote is a good thing
Yes, so, look, I disagree with the hours. I think that's a mistake. I think they should probably extend that. But in terms of the drop boxes, what we're trying -- we're pretending as though a pandemic didn't exist, right? There are a bunch of things that happened during the course of the  election that require drop boxes and things like that. What this law actually does is codify the fact that drop boxes can exist All they're saying is it should be at the polling location
Well, this debate will be continued. Thank you for engaging in it, panel. See you next Sunday. Up next our "Power Players of the Week." Even in the age of COVID, they can put you in the seats to watch your team play 
 Brackets are getting busted as March Madness rolls on. But while your college basketball team may not wind up in the final four, you can still be in the stands. Just go to our "Power Players of the Week."   
 It was something that had never been offered before and it made sense for the first time.  It is feeling connected to a team but also just a connection to a community.  Taylor Gaussoin, he's on the left, and Joe DiPietro, on how COVID put them in the fan cutout business. Their marketing firm, Perk Social, will create , fan cutouts for both of this year's NCAA Final Fours, men and women.  
 Is there any priority for teams that will be in the Final Four?  Once the Final Four is announced, that is how they will be installed. After the final four games, we go into the championship game, we will be shuffling them to showcase the ones for the actual championship game.  By now we're used to photos in the stands instead of fans, but Joe says he first noticed cutouts last summer at a German soccer match.  This was fan engagement for COVID.  How immediate was the interest?  
 From the beginning of September I think we had two teams sign on board and then by the end of September it was over . So the -- the growth in the change was incredible.  How many cutouts have you made so far?  We've produced over , cutouts and counting.  Perk Social gets $ per cutout. The teams often charge fans more. With the proceeds going to school athletic funds or teams' charitable foundations, like this Detroit Lions promotion
You could actually pay I think it was around a thousand dollars and you could sit, again, sit, next to Barry Sanders cutouts So your cut out would be placed next to Barry Sanders' cut out
Uploading your photo is easy and fans get pretty creative But every image is reviewed
There have definitely been inappropriate ones that we had to send back  And fans can tell their teams why being at the game virtually is so important to them
Sometimes it's just as simple as go team, we miss seeing you, we're supporting you But the piece that we did not expect when we started this where the memorials
With got Mo's Rows  Fans created Mo's Rows, in tribute to a young Baltimore Ravens supporter who lost his battle with cancer this summer
This is amazing  It shows the power of like that -- that fandom, first of all, but also like how human this initiative ended up being
How long do think these cutouts will stay popular?  We're already seeing a little bit of a sunset on this Teams want to get people back in the stands
Still, Taylor and Joe say cutouts are too much fun to disappear. So maybe  We've got one more surprise for you too
I should have seen this coming  We were able to get you your own official  cutout
Let me just say, I would not want to sit next to that guy at the Final Four! Way too serious 
 And my wife isn't crazy about the cut out either. Now this program note.  p.m. Eastern on Fox News Channel. 
'' hits back at critics of his opinion on Biden's military decisions Joe Biden was elected as a moderate who was going to stay the course and return this country to normalcy. As it turns out, Biden is changing this country faster than any president ever has. Our job is to pay attention to how exactly Joe Biden is changing it. The New York Times isn’t going to tell you, and we think you have a right to know. 
Now, not every change that Joe Biden makes will matter over time. Despite all the huffing and puffing, a lot of things that presidents do are quickly forgotten. Some of the things he promises won’t happen; others are just symbolic ring-kissing, designed to appease the interest groups that got him elected. But some of Biden’s changes are very real, and they matter very much. 
Nothing matters more than what Joe Biden does to the U.S. military. Our military is the last functional institution of any size in this country. It’s the last institution most people trust and respect. It is by far the most important. A weak military means no country. Period. So on Monday, when we saw Joe Biden pledge to bring an "intensity of purpose and mission to really change the culture and habits" of the U.S. military, we paid attention. 
 Some of it’s relatively straightforward work where we’re making good progress. Designing body armor that fits women properly, tailoring combat uniforms for women, creating maternity flight suits, updating requirements for their hairstyles. Perhaps maternity flight suits have been around for a while. We’ve never heard of them. But here was the President of the United States promoting them at a press conference. 
 That phrase stuck out not because we have some hateful bias against pregnant women flying military jets. We’re pro-pregnancy, as we often say. We’re also open-minded. Maybe pregnant women make the best pilots. The Department of Defense measures everything, so there has to be extensive research on this question. If the Pentagon can show that pregnant pilots are the best, we will be the first to demand an entire Air Force of pregnant pilots. 
 The problem is, we’re pretty confident that Joe Biden hasn’t asked to see those numbers. We’d bet money he never even thought to ask. The rest of us depend on the U.S. military to protect our families and to protect the country itself. Joe Biden doesn’t see it that way. Finding the most effective military pilots — or infantry officers, or SEAL teams — is not his priority. It’s not even close to his priority. Identity politics is Joe Biden’s priority. It’s all that matters. 
You see this attitude throughout the U.S. government, as well as in the corporate world. Key positions filled on the basis of physical appearance, without any reference to ability or experience. Now, you can get by with that if you’re Citibank, which now cares more about wokeness than about banking
But it is not fine if your only job is to protect the United States from people who want to kill the rest of us. That is the worst kind of dereliction of duty. Yet it’s happening right now on an enormous scale. Just this week, the Biden administration announced that the Pentagon will pay for gender reassignment surgery for active duty personnel. How do sex changes in the military make this country safer? 
That’s not a trick question, it’s another volley in the culture war. It’s the only question that matters — literally. But no one bothered to ask it, probably because no one can remember why the U.S military exists
the U.S. military exists to fight and win wars. That is its only purpose. The U.S. military is not an NGO. It is not a vehicle for achieving equity. It is not a social experiment. It’s definitely not an employment agency; nobody has a God-given right to work in the military. If you ever hear this show whine that Delta Force is discriminating against paunchy, -year-old cable news hosts, you’ll know we’ve lost the thread. It’s not about us, it’s about the country. Making people feel valued and included is a good thing, but it is not the point of the U.S. military. It cannot be the point of the U.S. military, or else we’re done.  
 This used to be obvious. The military was the purest meritocracy we had. If you get a minute, go back and listen to some of the speeches that Colin Powell used to give about his experience in the U.S. Army. The military was willing to judge Powell purely on his talents, something that few would do at the time. Powell was smart and capable, and for that reason, he became chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff. He was justly proud of that, and so was the country he served. Would Colin Powell’s story be possible today? It would not 
Joe Biden has put a man called Lloyd Austin in charge of the Pentagon. Biden plucked Austin from the cynical world of private equity, but you’re not supposed to notice that. You’re supposed to notice only that Lloyd Austin is Black. The real headline, however, is that Lloyd Austin is the second defense secretary in a row to have been on the payroll of Raytheon, the massive defense contractor. If you saw something like this happen in a Central American country, you would call it corruption, and you would be right. For centuries, our military has been self-consciously non-partisan. In a democracy, it has to be that way. No country can survive if its armed forces become the tool of a specific political party. We know that because it happens all the time, all over the world, and the consequences are always horrifying. It has never happened here. However, Lloyd Austin is openly political. In his first days on the job, Austin made the entire armed services submit to a kind of political purity test. Anyone with views that he found "extreme" had to leave. The rest of us watched as this happened, and once again, no one said anything. The left approved, the right felt hamstrung because they support the troops. Of course, if you support the troops, you should probably speak up when they’re being abused. Then Austin set about accelerating poisonous trends already in progress at the Pentagon, the worst of these being the use of irrelevant criteria in hiring and promotion. In order to meet the demands of various Democratic interest groups, the Pentagon has dramatically lowered standards in the services. They officially deny this, but it’s true. Ask anyone who works there. If you press the spokesmen, they’ll tell you that it’s not a big deal because traditional standards don’t really measure anything. Well, then why have them in the first place? Why have standards at all? It doesn’t make sense. They’re lying. And they’re lying because they have to lie. Politicians have demanded it. 
Now, if you dare to point any of this out, they become hysterical because they can’t defend their own policies. When people can’t defend what they’ve done, they yell. They can’t even clearly explain what those policies are, at least publicly. So they attack. You hear politicians like Sen. Tammy Duckworth, D-Ill. say that it’s unpatriotic to question the Pentagon unless you’ve served in the military yourself. 
You haven’t earned that right. Really? Can only cops talk about police brutality? If you haven’t been elected to office, can you criticize Congress? They’re not making a real argument. They’re trying to silence dissent. We’re not playing along, sorry. Every American citizen has a right, maybe an obligation, to know what the military they pay for is doing because our lives may depend on it.  "Press Secretary Smites Fox Host"
We suspect this is one war they might actually win. They’ve got a manpower advantage 
We could play you a lot of the tape from this today -- it took up most of their day -- and we could marvel over it. Since when does the Pentagon declare war on a domestic news operation? We can’t remember that ever happening. But we’re going to pass on that,  because this is bigger than a feud with some flack at the Pentagon. This is genuinely worrisome. The Department of Defense has never been more aggressively or openly political. There are, at present, , American troops stationed in Afghanistan. They remain there to prevent the fall of Kabul to extremists. Simultaneously, there are , troops in our own Capitol, also as protection against "extremists," meaning people who voted for the losing candidate in the last election. Judging by those numbers, the Pentagon is twice as focused on controlling our own citizens as it is on controlling the Taliban. Meanwhile, as Lloyd Austin hyperventilates about White supremacy, there are real threats out there, and the biggest ones continue to be ignored. Those threats aren’t in Syria or suburban Virginia, and they’re not domestic extremism, at least not right now. The main threat we face, as everyone who is honest knows, is the government of China. China is ascendant. Their economy will soon outpace ours. China now has the largest navy on the planet. Why do they have that? Why did they feel the need to build it? Does that have potential consequences for us? Yes. 
If China moved against Taiwan, how would we respond? More likely, if the Chinese decided to close international shipping lanes, it would cripple our economy. If they decided to shut down our internet, it would bring our life to a halt. 
If they decided to occupy Malaysia, that would be a grave concern to the world. If any of these things, or  other things that might take place, actually happen, what exactly would our Pentagon do about it? Can the U.S. military still win a real war? Those are the questions that matter. Those are the only questions that matter, which may be why Joe Biden wants to talk about maternity flight suits. 
Joe Biden gave his first press conference Thursday. No president has ever waited this long to answer questions in public, and we weren't entirely sure it would happen. A reporter at the White House saw Biden ambling around and asked him if he was ready for his first press conference. 
"What press conference?" Biden replied. Apparently in the end, somebody told him. A staffer pointed Biden toward the tape mark on the floor, and gave him a shove. Biden shuffled forth and started talking. And pausing, and then talking some more. And then pausing. You’ve heard the term "pregnant pause?" Joe Biden’s pauses were third-trimester quintuplets. These pauses were ready to burst
So the best way to get something done ... if you, if you hold it near and dear to you that you, uh, um, like to be able to ... well anyway ... I’m ... we’re gonna get a lot done. Got that, America? We’re gonna get a lot done. A lot. Of course we’ll get a whole lot more done, and confuse far fewer people, if we go ahead and read our policy positions from small pieces of paper that others have painstakingly prepared for us. That way, we won’t lose consciousness in mid-sentence, or accidentally start a war 
So when the topic of North Korea arose, Joe Biden knew exactly what to do. He found his piece of paper and started reading the words that had been written on it
We're consulting with our allies and partners and, uh, there will be, uh, responses if they choose to escalate, um, we will respond accordingly. But I'm also prepared, uh, um, for some form of diplomacy. That’s got to be pretty intimidating to the North Koreans, who of course were watching it in real time. They’ve got nukes in Pyongyang now, and that means they probably have cable TV too. Don’t underestimate these people. 
They’re crafty. Of course, the North Koreans were already deeply afraid of Joe Biden. They know he means business. They remember the time Biden beat the crap of the entire Kim family with a chain. He and Nelson Mandela, back in ‘. You’ve heard the story, but they lived it. It’s part of their lore 
 North Korea is facing not just Joe Biden’s masculinity, but an entire piece of paper with instructions on it that Joe Biden is perfectly willing to read any time he needs to. That cue card is Joe Biden’s secret weapon in the fight against nuclear proliferation. You can breathe easy, America, and that’s good news, because we’ve got problems of our own in this country. One of our biggest problems is voting. It’s getting harder and harder to vote. There are some people in America — bigots, let’s just call them what they are — who are demanding that we ought to know voters’ identities before we let them choose our government. They want people to show IDs at the polls, if you can even imagine, in . These bigots, Joe Biden explained, are Republicans
And so I'm convinced that we'll be able to stop this because it is the most pernicious thing. This makes Jim Crow look like Jim Eagle. Jim Eagle? Who’s Jim Eagle? A comic book hero from the s? Some kind of dog-faced pony soldier? We didn’t know who Jim Eagle was, so we went scurrying to our Google machines to look it up. 
Then we realized — duh! — we’re being way too literal here. It’s an analogy. Crow. Eagle. They’re both birds, but an eagle is much bigger than a crow. That means that asking people to show a driver’s license when they vote is much more racist than segregation and lynchings. Segregation and lynchings were Jim Crow. Voter IDs are Jim Eagle. Way worse 
That makes sense when you think about it. Most Black people don’t have government-issued IDs. That’s why they can’t drive cars, or hold jobs, or fly on airplanes, or stay in hotels, or go to the doctor, or cash checks, or sign rental agreements, or buy homes, or open bank accounts, or purchase Sudafed at CVS. Black people can’t do any of those things because they just don’t have IDs. Millions and millions of them don’t have IDs. It’s sad, as Joe Biden often points out. 
You might think the solution to this tragedy would be to make it easier for Americans to get IDs   just make sure that no one ever has to show an ID in order to vote. That way, the millions and millions of Black people who somehow don’t have IDs won’t feel bad or left out. They still won’t be able to drive cars, or have jobs or bank accounts, or live anywhere, but at least they can vote a lot, and the rest of us won’t be racist. Problem solved. As Joe Biden just told us, he’s going to get a lot done. Not just in the next four years, by the way, but in the four years after that. Joe Biden is running again. He told us that Thursday, too. By the end of his second term, Joe Biden will be  years old. That’s a full decade past the life expectancy of the average American man . 
But there’s nothing average about Joe Biden. Time improves him. Like certain varieties of artisanal cheese, Joe Biden is meant to be aged. He just gets sharper and more pungent. His next campaign will be even tastier
Have you decided whether you are going to run for reelection in ? You haven't set up a reelection campaign yet, as your predecessor had by this time 
 My predecessor needed to
My predecessor. Oh, God, I miss him. My answer is yes. My plan is to run for reelection. That's my expectation. "My plan is to run for reelection." Now, we weren’t in the room when Joe Biden said that, but according to those who were, there was an audible gasp of horror from behind the curtain. Sources said it sounded very much like Kamala Harris. We can’t confirm that. But we can tell you that Joe Biden has already picked a theme for this next campaign. The theme is unity. "Wait a second," you might be thinking. "Wasn’t 'unity' the theme of Biden’s last campaign, the one that just ended in November?" Yep. But that wasn’t enough unity. There’s more unity on the way, ladies and gentlemen — bucketloads of it, tractor-trailer loads full. Imagine every swimming pool in Malibu, topped to the brim with unity, and then add all the pools in Bel-Air. That’s how much unity we’re talking about. And by unity, of course, we mean policies that make Americans hate each other much more than they ever have. That’s what Joe Biden has given us so far. Soon we’ll have more 
 The third reason I said I was running was to unite the country. And generically speaking, all of you said, "No, you can't do that." Well, I've not been able to reunite the Congress, but I've been able to unite the country based on the polling data. We have to come together. Oh, "the polling data." The real currency of Washington. 
We haven’t checked the "polling data" ticker today, but we have to tell you that we approach this one specific claim with some degree of skepticism. Not every one of Joe Biden’s unifying policies has fully unified the country just yet. They are still some crotchety hold-outs deep in the American interior who aren’t fully sold on his fresh new program of being berated, humiliated, disarmed, and taxed into poverty and powerlessness. Those people are bigots, obviously. They’re probably friends with the snake-handling evangelical freaks who complain when some dude shows up in their eight-year-old daughter’s locker room. Whatever. You can’t please everyone. But you know who you can please, if you’re Joe Biden? The media. Reporters are highly pleased. 
They’re one group that remain utterly united in their love and support of Joe Biden . Joe Biden knows this well. But he’s not pandering to reporters. Joe Biden is bigger than that. It’s not like The Washington Post is a credit card company from Delaware. He doesn’t need to slobber on them. On Thursday, Joe Biden explained that, despite his massive successes on our southern border, the ones you’re seeing on TV, he’s not ready to show reporters exactly what he’s doing down there. That’s for him to know and them to find out. 
 We haven't seen the facilities in which children are really packed together, to give the American people a chance to see that. Will you commit to transparency on this issue?  I will commit to transparency as soon as I am in a position to be able to implement what we're doing right now… Well, that’s kind of unusual. You don’t often hear a politician admit that he’s rejecting openness and embracing secrecy. They usually lie about that. Not Joe Biden. Biden tends to say the unspoken things out loud. "We’re as opaque as a shower curtain," he told the press corps today, "and there’s nothing you can do about it." It’s pretty provocative. Of course it is. But provocative in a way that reporters enjoy. They’re naughty, those reporters. They like to be teased. Deny them what they ask for, and they want you more. A lady from state media, a.k.a. National Public Radio, was flush with wonder as she described the remarkable personal qualities of her boss, Joe Biden
You've said over and over again that immigrants shouldn't come to this country right now. This isn't the time to come. That message is not being received. Instead, the perception of you, that got you elected -- as a moral, decent man -- is the reason why a lot of immigrants are coming to this country and entrusting you with unaccompanied minors. 
When you call a man "moral" and "decent" in your question to him, it kind of sets the frame, as they say. But the bottom line is a "moral, decent man" is running this country, ladies and gentlemen. That’s the message of unity. And by the way, it’s a required message, so repeat it to yourself five times and then repeat it to your friends. If you don’t, you’re racist 
Jury selection has begun in the murder trial of Derek Chauvin. Chauvin is one of the officers who has been accused of murdering George Floyd in Minneapolis last Memorial Day. On one level, the trial is a local crime story, one of many unfolding right now. But of course, it’s also incalculably more than that. 
 I just want to say a few words about the horrific killing of George Floyd in Minnesota ... It sends a very clear message to the Black community and Black lives that are under threat every single day ... They speak to a nation where too often just the color of your skin puts your life at risk ... George Floyd's last words spoke to a nation where the color of your skin dictates the safety of you and your future ... I'm a white man. I think I understand. But I can't feel it. George Floyd was murdered because he was Black. That’s what they told us. They demanded that we believe that, and if you doubted it in any way, if you had any questions about the facts of the case, then you were effectively as guilty as the racist cop. One theology teacher at a Catholic high school in Columbus, Ohio, learned that the hard way. 
During a virtual class, teacher Deborah DelPrince noted that the cause of George Floyd's death was "disputed." That’s literally true. The trial hadn’t even begun yet, a dispute is at the core of every trial. But, for the crime of observing this, the Catholic Diocese of Columbus fired Deborah DelPrince. According to the Diocese, DelPrince had made, quote, "unsupported personal assertions and opinions" about the death of George Floyd
Was it murder? That question matters deeply, because Floyd’s death has been used to reshape how we live in this country. Because he died, we have something called "equity." Under the pretext of equity, our leaders have enshrined open racism in nearly all of our institutions, from corporate hiring quotas to woke kindergarten lesson plans. Americans have been told that George Floyd’s death was a racist murder, and they’re responsible for it. On CNN, Don Lemon asked  Cuomo, "It is not incumbent upon Black people to stop racism. To stop this, it is incumbent upon people who hold the power in this society to help to do that, to do the heavy lifting And guess who that is? Who is that, ?" 
Cuomo responded, "White people." "White people" are responsible. CNN said that out loud, but many others joined them. That assertion led to rioting that killed at least  people, and may continue to kill more. It destroyed hundreds of businesses. Minneapolis, where this all began, may never return to normal. There was rioting last summer, before the Minneapolis city council cut police funding, and the city hasn't gotten any safer since then. 
In the first weeks of January, Minneapolis saw a % increase in gunshot victims compared to the same period last year. The neighborhood where George Floyd died is now more dangerous than ever. Businesses are boarded up. Residents call it "George Floyd Square." I visited that neighborhood a few weeks ago, and walked around, just to see what it looked like. 
I got lunch at the convenience store where George Floyd passed his fake $ bill. It was awful. It had not improved, it was much worse. Nothing BLM has done in Minneapolis has improved the lives of the people who live there. On Saturday night, a man was shot to death in the neighborhood. A reporter from The Washington Examiner, Joe Simonson, tried to get to George Floyd Square to find out what happened. But he couldn’t. He was informed no White people were allowed in. That is a snapshot of the equity George Floyd’s death has been used to justify. 
The second reason we're going to assess what happened to George Floyd is that it's likely Derek Chauvin won't receive a fair trial. You may not care, but you should. That should matter to you, regardless of who you voted for. Every American deserves a fair trial, period. That’s the whole point of this country. Equal justice under the law. There is no other point. But how will Chauvin have one? Hundreds of activists – some dressed in all black – have been staring down National Guard troops outside the courthouse in Minneapolis all week. They shut down streets outside the courthouse on Monday. "We need justice, people," one shouted. "Justice by any means necessary." In other words, if you vote to acquit Derek Chauvin, the mob is saying, the community will burn because we will burn it. It’s like something from Mississippi in the s. But where’s the Justice Department? Where’s the so-called Civil Rights Division to protect the civil rights of Derek Chauvin? Yes, even accused cops have the right to a fair trial. Your civil rights are not suspended when you’re accused. This is America. 
"It’s more from a safety, security standpoint. As far as I’m concerned I feel comfortable and safe. But I just wouldn’t want any issues or harm to come to my wife or my family ... If certain individuals who were out to intimidate or cause harm, if they knew where I lived, there’s potential [they] could damage the house or spray paint the house or garage door. Or break a window." So the jurors are intimidated. That’s the point of mob justice. It was the point of mob justice  years ago in the American South, it’s the point of mob justice in Minneapolis today. The thugs outside the courthouse don't want jurors to focus on the evidence. They know that evidence might not help their case. Most of that evidence hasn’t been seen by most of the American population. The effort to hide that evidence began immediately after George Floyd died. Everyone saw the footage of Derek Chauvin with his knee on George Floyd's neck. It was horrible. It is also confusing. When you watch it, you ask yourself "Why would a police officer act like that? Of course, it must be illegal." No one in the media thought to tell us that, in fact, using a knee to restrain an uncooperative suspect is the official policy of the Minneapolis Police Department. In fact, it’s taught at their academy. But you didn't know that last summer, because our media was busy building a murder case against Derek Chauvin and using it to transform the country, which they successfully have. 
Nor did anyone in the press think to report what happened before Derek Chauvin put his knee on George Floyd's neck. Authorities in Minnesota made certain no one saw the body camera footage that showed it. Body cameras exist so that we can know what happened, but they hid this footage. We only saw it because The Daily Mail, which is based in Great Britain and therefore slightly less terrified and dishonest than our media, got a copy. The video showed officers working for about  minutes trying to detain a man who they believed had just committed the crime of passing a fake $ bill, a man who clearly had lost all sense of reality. The footage showed George Floyd begging officers to stay with him. He was clearly suffering. The tape is wrenching, it really is. By the end, you’re filled with sympathy for George Floyd. But it’s not the picture of a murder. The incident began around  p.m. on May , when a grocery clerk called police to report that George Floyd had tried to make a purchase using a counterfeit bill. Officers found George Floyd in a car nearby. Immediately, it was very obvious that something was very wrong with him. George Floyd was emotionally out of control, and that’s why you feel so deeply for him as you watch that video. He’s panicked, he’s terrified, he’s hysterical. The question is, why? The Minneapolis Police Department does not have some fabled history of brutality, and this certainly wasn’t George Floyd’s first encounter with law enforcement. 
Between  and , police in Texas arrested Floyd a total of nine times, on charges ranging from drug possession to theft. Then, on Aug. , , George Floyd barged into a woman's home and held a gun to her abdomen in front of her toddler. It was a home invasion, and George Floyd got five years in prison for participating in it. If he'd been in custody before, why was George Floyd on the verge of hysteria? The police officers wondered the same thing. "You’ve got foam around your mouth," one says. A bystander tells Floyd, "You’re gonna die of a heart attack." "Are you on something right now?" one police officer asks. "No," says George Floyd. 
But that wasn’t close to true. According to the Hennepin County Medical Examiner's Office, George Floyd wasn't just high. He had a lethal dose of fentanyl in his system, in addition to methamphetamine. The autopsy report showed that Floyd had  nanograms of fentanyl per milliliter of blood in his system when he was tested at a hospital. 
That's more than three times the amount of fentanyl that can kill a healthy person. Again, that’s not our judgment. That’s directly from the autopsy report, the one people didn’t see until after the riots. It read, "Signs associated with fentanyl toxicity include severe respiratory depression, seizures, hypotension, coma and death. In fatalities from fentanyl, blood concentrations are variable and have been reported as low as  nanograms of fentanyl per milliliter of blood." No one is denying this. 
The Floyd family’s own lawyer admits that it’s true. It’s "true that the Hennepin County medical examiner's office autopsy showed that Floyd had fentanyl in his system," he conceded, but then he insisted that George Floyd was actually killed by racism. 
In fact, the medical examiner found that George Floyd's heart was diseased, and on Memorial Day it finally gave way. According to a press release from the medical examiner's office, Floyd's cause of death was, "Cardiopulmonary arrest complicating law enforcement subdual, restraint, and neck compression" Contributing factors included, quote, "arteriosclerotic and hypertensive heart disease; fentanyl intoxication; recent methamphetamine use." According to the report, George Floyd was also infected with COVID. 
That’s a lot. In August, after months of rioting, documents related to the autopsy were released in court. One was a memo detailing a conversation the prosecutor's office had with Andrew Baker, the chief Hennepin County medical examiner. Andrew Baker told prosecutors that, "if Mr. Floyd had been found dead in his home  and there were no other contributing factors, he would conclude that it was an overdose death." The memo noted that Baker said Floyd's fentanyl levels were "pretty high" 'and that it is a "fatal level of fentanyl under normal circumstances." In a separate memo, Baker announced that "the autopsy revealed no physical evidence suggesting that Mr. Floyd died of asphyxiation." Well, Floyd was having trouble breathing. That's the the most notable part of the videos. What explains that? Why was George Floyd telling officers "I can’t breathe?"  One of the primary symptoms of fentanyl overdoses is "slowed or stopped breathing," leading to "unconsciousness" and death. That might also explain why George Floyd was saying "I can't breathe" long before any police officer’s knee was anywhere near him. In fact, George Floyd was complaining that he couldn't breathe as cops tried to get him in a police car, while he resisted. No one can watch the footage without feeling sympathy for George Floyd. He’s terrified. But does it amount to murder? No, it doesn’t. It clearly doesn’t. 
The problem is, no one saw that footage during the riots last summer. They weren't allowed to. That could be why, last June, % of respondents in a USA TODAY/Ipsos Poll described George Floyd's death as a "murder." That was then. More facts have emerged from behind the media blackout, and that perception has changed dramatically and accordingly. 
The percentage of people who think George Floyd was murdered has now dropped to %. In other words, the question of whether George Floyd was murdered is, in fact, "disputed," by a majority of Americans. The bad news is you’re still not allowed to say that out loud. 
 just days before authorities reported the first cases of the coronavirus in Wuhan, a top inspector at the World Health Organization sat for an interview that was broadcast on YouTube. The inspector was a man called Peter Daszak. He spoke about his research with the Wuhan Institute of Virology, which had been going on for more than  years. In the interview, Daszak also discussed his nonprofit organization, which had received millions from the U.S. government. Daszak channeled a substantial percentage of that money to the lab in Wuhan, which he described as, "world-class lab of the highest standards." 
Some of that work, paid for by American taxpayers, went to something called "gain-of-function research." It involved manipulating viruses in a laboratory to make them more transmissible and more deadly. In his YouTube interview, Peter Daszak spoke freely about all of this. At the time, he had no reason not to. Outside of a handful of diplomats, no one had raised concerns about the kind of research into bat viruses, very dangerous research it turns out, that was taking place in Wuhan. According to Peter Daszak, his research, and the grant money that supported it, was necessary to create a vaccine to prevent the next global pandemic. Daszak even explained how easy it is to manipulate a coronavirus
Coronavirus is a pretty good…You can manipulate them in the lab pretty easily. It’s spike protein. Spike protein drives a lot of what happens with the coronavirus, zoonotic risk. So you can get the sequence, build the protein. And we worked with Ralph Barrack at UNC to do this. Insert into a backbone of another virus and then do some work in the lab. "You can manipulate them pretty easily" in a lab. That recorded on December , . It wasn’t long before Peter Daszak stopping giving interviews about his lab experiments. People were starting to ask uncomfortable questions. Wasn’t there an advanced virology lab with a history of sloppy containment protocols, very close to where the first out outbreak occurred? Well yes there was. But Peter Daszak didn’t want to talk to about that. So he and other bureaucrats at the World Health Organization came up with an alternative explanation for the pandemic 
The virus, they told the world, had most likely emerged from an exotic mammal that form some reason was being sold in a seafood market in Wuhan. That’s what happened. The media bought that explanation. Later we discovered that was not true. There was never any evidence that COVID infections originated in a pangolin eaten for food. The locals in Wuhan laughed at that idea. Peter Daszak didn’t apologize. He just kept deflecting attention from the lab. In April, he told the show DemocracyNow that, "The idea that this virus escaped from a lab is just pure baloney. It’s simply not true. I’ve been working with that lab for  years. They’re some of the best scientists in the world." Daszak has pushed that line ever since. Relentlessly
scientists know Covid- wasn't created in a lab." Then made the point on Twitter repeatedly 
 "[Gain-of-function] research has nothing to do with the origin of COVID unless you believe the conspiracy theories. Why mix the two together if the virus came from bats, which is what all the evidence suggests?" Almost every media outlet in this country dutifully repeated Daszak's claims as fact. 
 As early as January, National Public Radio reported, "A wet market Wuhan, China, is catching the blame as the probable source of the current coronavirus outbreak that's sweeping the globe." That was fast. It was a few days into the pandemic, and it wasn’t clear that NPR had sent anyone to the ground in Wuhan, but somehow they knew exactly where the virus came from half a world away in central China. National Geographic, famous for its expeditions, also determined, somehow, that the issue was settled. "Wet markets launched the coronavirus," they wrote. "Here's what you need to know." So, the investigative reporters were satisfied with no investigation. But some people still had questions. One of them was Alina Chan, who’s a molecular biologist at the Broad Institute at Harvard and MIT. Chan noticed something odd about the coronavirus. Its genome hadn't changed much over time, even though it, the virus, had undergone trillions of replications. That’s strange. Normally, viruses that jump from animals to human have to adapt quickly to their human hosts. That's what the last SARS virus did, in . Early-stage SARS viruses looked very different from SARS viruses later in the pandemic. But this coronavirus wasn't behaving that way. In fact, it seemed like it was custom-built for human transmission. 
When Chan published a paper on her findings, Peter Daszak attacked her to any reporter who would listen. He called Chan's conclusions "preposterous" and a "conspiracy theory."  Most media organizations followed suit, and the story went away. After all, Alina Chan was just one molecular biologist. What did she know? She was easy enough to ignore. 
That's, of course, exactly what happened to a Chinese virologist, Dr. Li-Meng Yang, whom we spoke to on this show. Yang was working in Wuhan in the early days of the pandemic, but the American media dismissed her as a, nut, a conspiracy theorist. There’s nothing to see here. Go away, crazy Chinese lady. And so she did. But going forward, it may be much more difficult to dismiss this story. On Sunday, the former Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Robert Redfield, told CNN that based on everything he knows, he too believes the coronavirus likely came from the lab in Wuhan
I am of the point of view that I still think the most likely ideology of this pathogen in Wuhan was from a laboratory, escaped. Other people don’t believe that. That’s fine. Science will eventually figure it out. It’s not unusual for respiratory pathogens that are being worked on in a laboratory to infect the laboratory worker. 
It’s hard to dismiss Robert Redfield as a QAnon enthusiast or a lunatic. He’s not. Redfield is a former Army officer who has spent his life studying virology. That doesn't mean he's always right about everything, and in fact, he’s often been wrong during this pandemic. But it does mean that what he says is worth assessing carefully. 
That's supposed to be what journalists do for a living. They look into claims that have some merit, not proven, but should be looked into. Especially claims that have enormous implications for this country 
But that's not what happened. The scientists over at MSNBC and CNN -- the same people who silenced Alina Chan got to work immediately
Former CDC director, Robert Redfield, told our own Sanjay Gupta in a new CNN documentary, that he believes COVID- originated from a lab in Wuhan, even though, obviously, there has been no formal evidence to support the theory  You know, the lab-leak theory doesn't seem like a plausible theory unless you aggregate the biggest collection of coronaviruses and put them in a lab
The theory that the virus originated in a lab in Wuhan, China. But tonight Dr. Anthony Fauci tells national geographic that, "This virus could not have been artificially or deliberately manipulated."   Both scientist and U.S. intelligence community agree, that this virus was not man made. That is not a possibility it came from a natural source, it didn’t come from a lab…A lot of people on the right love that phrase "escape from the lab" because it sounds like something from Marvel movie or comic book It sounds like they are talking about a man made virus that China was weaponizing that got out of control
it did not come from a lab. What’s so interesting, of course, is we don’t know. There isn’t conclusive evidence in either direction. So why were these self-appointed TV doctors and talking heads instantly making it political and instantly claiming something they can’t prove. The New York Times immediately published a hit piece entitled, "Ex-CDC Director Favors Debunked Covid- Origin Theory." 
According to the Times, "intelligence agencies ... [have] no evidence that the coronavirus had escaped from the lab" 
That’s not exactly true. It’s not a settled question. Last April, the Office of the Director of National Intelligence released a statement noting that the intelligence community has not ruled out a leak from the lab in Wuhan. Intelligence officials said that they will, "continue to rigorously examine emerging information and intelligence to determine whether the outbreak began through contact with infected animals or if it was the result of an accident at a laboratory in Wuhan." As recently as just last month, the Director of National Intelligence stood by that statement
to protect China. The World Health Organization is funded by China, and they’re certainly working hard to do that. This week, the WHO Released what it called a "report" on the origins of the coronavirus. There was only one researcher based in the United States who participated in the WHO’s investigation into the origin of the virus. Guess who it was? Peter Daszak. Surprise, surprise 
Now guess what Daszak and his colleagues discovered in their "investigation"? A lot of Chinese innocence. In the WHO’s -page report on the origins of the coronavirus, only two pages were devoted to the possibility the virus may have come from a lab. "Although rare, laboratory accidents do happen, and different laboratories around the world are working with bat coronaviruses," the report admits. 
And yes, it says, "The Wuhan CDC laboratory moved on nd December  to a new location near the [wet] market. Such moves can be disruptive for the operations of any laboratory." But don't get the wrong idea, says the WHO. It is "extremely unlikely" the virus came from a lab. Why is it so unlikely, exactly? "There is no record of viruses closely related to [the coronavirus] in any laboratory before December , or genomes that in combination could provide a SARS-CoV- genome." In other words, we didn’t find a paper trail because China didn’t leave one. 
But, the WHO would like you to know, if anyone could keep deadly viruses from escaping into the rest of the world, it’s the Wuhan Institute of Virology. "The three laboratories in Wuhan working with either [coronavirus] diagnostics and/or [coronavirus] isolation and vaccine development all had high quality biosafety level facilities that were well-managed," the report read. Case closed. 
By the way, this is contradicted by first-hand testimony of American diplomats who went into the lab and said "wow, this looks dangerous." But according to the WHO, China and the World Health Organization did nothing wrong, so stop asking questions. And yet it’s interesting that people won’t stop. Some people are continuing to ask. On Sunday, a former national security official told CBS that the WHO report has all the credibility of a North Korean evening news broadcast. Jamie Metzl, served in the Clinton administration and then the WHO advisory committee, can’t be described as a right-winger. But this was too much, and Jamie Metzl said so
I wouldn't really call what's happened now an investigation. It's essentially a highly-chaperoned, highly-curated study tour…Everybody around the world is imagining this is some kind of full investigation. It’s not. This group of experts only saw what the Chinese government wanted them to see…It was agreed first that China would have veto power over who even got to be on the mission…WHO agreed to that…Imagine if we have asked the Soviet Union to do a co-investigation of Chernobyl. It doesn't really make sense 
So why are so many people in positions of authority, including the so-called scientific community, so adamant that there’s nothing to see here?  last year, Richard Ebright, a microbiologist at Rutgers, sat for an interview with Boston Magazine. He explained why the scientific community might want to hide the origins of a pandemic like this. He said, "For the substantial subset of virologists who perform gain-of-function research, avoiding restrictions on research funding, avoiding implementation of appropriate biosafety standards, and avoiding implementation of appropriate research oversight are powerful motivators." Another scientist, Antonio Regalado from MIT, was more direct about it. If it's determined the virus came from a lab, Regalado said, it would, "shatter the scientific edifice, top to bottom." 
The scientific edifice is one thing everyone in Washington would like to see preserved. It’s what gave politicians the power they've abused for the past year -- the power to change elections, to eliminate thousands of small businesses, to make certain industries much richer and more powerful and destroy others. Tomorrow, the Biden administration is not going to announce a new investigation into the origins of the coronavirus. 
They're happy with the WHO report. Instead, they're going to announce one of the largest tax hikes in this country's history. Maybe the largest. It's projected to total between three and four trillion dollars. Most of the cost will fall on the middle class. At one point, the Biden people even tried to work in a gas tax, just to make sure hourly workers were hurt most
no one’s even suggesting reparations from China for COVID. No one can even utter the word. Reparations are for America to pay, always 
There are a lot of stories we could talk about, but we couldn’t get our minds off Joe Biden’s COVID speech Thursday night. Did you see it? The one where he seemed so sad about the lockdowns that have crushed businesses, kept kids out of school – "an entire generation," he said – and driven so many to suicide. Yet he never once mentioned or even hinted that he and his party are the very forces behind those lockdowns. "I’m really sorry about your black eye," he said, as he punched you in the face. It was bizarre. The whole speech was like that. It had a hallucinogenic quality, like it wasn’t quite real. But then, Joe Biden himself isn’t quite real. Maybe that’s the reason he talks that way.
 Biden has been living in utter seclusion for more than a year. He hasn’t spoken to anyone but his own lackeys. He hasn’t driven a car or sat on the grass and looked at the sky or been anywhere or done anything except in the most controlled possible environment. What an incredibly weird life that would be. Biden must imagine that everyone in America is as terrified of COVID as he is and is living in the same kind of bunker. Joe Biden is totally cut off.  Alex Berenson described Thursday's speech on our show as "late Soviet." The more we thought about that, the more perfect that seemed. 
Russia’s own Joe Biden was the late Leonid Brezhnev. Like Biden, Brezhnev was very clearly fading in his later years after a series of health problems. Also like Biden, despite his frailty and confusion, Brezhnev never lost his enthusiasm for pointless wars. He’s the one who ordered the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in . In December of that year, Brezhnev addressed Soviet youth in a televised speech. There are blatant similarities between this speech and Joe Biden’s. Keep in mind, Brezhnev was a full five years younger than Joe Biden is today. 
In the video, they were trying to tell him how the teleprompter works. He harrumphs a bit and looks vacant. He doesn’t quite get it. Brezhnev didn’t actually lead Russia by the end. He remained the country’s figurehead, but it was the ideologues behind the scenes who ran the show. Brezhnev had his own Susan Rice and Barack Obama to make the real decisions. The similarities are pretty amazing. 
Over at CNN, however, they didn’t see it. Or maybe they did see it, and didn’t care. CNN always loved Brezhnev. In any case, the usual chorus of toadies strained for a high note Thursday. They would tell you how wonderful the speech was, as if you didn’t have a TV and didn’t see it for yourself. "How refreshing, how human, how compassionate, how American," Don Lemon said after taking a deep breath
Cuomo added, "Biden tried to lift our spirits with a medical message about trying to recover our sense of collective cause ... Certainly it was healing."  "He didn’t say ‘You need me.’ He said ‘I need you, I need you’ I mean, my God! Isn’t that it?!" 
 "People always talk about the feeling of the relief they have hearing Biden, but what he’s doing now soars above that." "What the president is saying is that help is on the way ... We’re all in this together. I need your help," Lemon summed up. "We’re all Americans. Woo!! Hallelujah!" What are these people talking about? What about Joe Biden’s shaky monotone last night inspired them, exactly? Most people found it depressing. Maybe we’re being too literal here. It probably doesn’t matter what Joe Biden actually said. He could have called for the bombing of Toronto, and CNN’s panel of trained seals would still enthusiastically applaud it. 
It’s their job to enthusiastically applaud what Joe Biden says. Our job is to try and figure out what Biden’s speech meant for the country. So let’s think about it for a minute. The lockdowns have been tough, Biden conceded at the outset. God knows how we got them. But we did. "Those restrictions will be lifted as soon as we can lift them, and we will return to some version of the country we now only dimly remember. We’d really love to do that. But in order to go forward, and take the boot off your neck, we’re going to need every American to listen carefully and obey our orders. Do what we tell you to do. That won’t be easy, but if you do it, there’s a payoff for good behavior. If you’re obedient, there is a chance — not a guarantee of course, but a distinct possibility, God willing — that you may be able to see some of the people you love around July . That could actually happen, ladies and gentlemen." 
 If we do our part, if we do this together, by July the th, there's a good chance you, your families and friends will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and have a cookout and a barbecue and celebrate Independence Day. That doesn't mean large events with lots of people together, but it does mean small groups will be able to get together
A Fourth of July cookout, in your very own backyard, assuming you have one!  a socially-distanced barbeque! What other wonders does President Biden have in store for us? Well, you’re going to have to get vaccinated to find out. Sorry. That’s the other requirement. Should have mentioned it. Everybody needs the shot, period. That’s what Biden said, and that’s a lot of shots. The good news is, now that we’re on what Joe Biden describes as "war footing" with this virus, vaccinating people is a counterterrorism operation. What we did to ISIS, we’re going to do to COVID. Biden didn’t mention drones, but we will need soldiers. That’s why Joe Biden is building a vaccination corps, which will include active duty members of the military. An army of vaccinators 
 Two months ago, the country, this country, didn't have nearly enough vaccine supply to vaccinate all or even near all of the American public. But soon we will ... Now because of all the work we've done, we'll have enough vaccine supply for all adults in America by the end of May. That's months ahead of schedule. And we're mobilizing thousands of vaccinators to put the vaccine and one's arm
what if you don’t want to get vaccinated? Not everyone does. Some people have religious objections. Others have concerns about this specific medicine. Others simply don’t want it. Do you need a reason to turn down the vaccine? What happens if you do? Will you be allowed to fly on airplanes or go to work, or enter the front doors of Madison Square Garden? Joe Biden didn’t specify, though it’s hard to believe he would support any kind of vaccine coercion As he’s said so often over so many years, if it’s your body, it’s your choice
"I support a woman's right to choose under that constitutional guaranteed provision. And quite frankly I always will.  Folks, you know and we're going to fight to protect a woman's right to make her own personal decisions when it comes to her health care. 
Quite frankly, you’ve got the absolute right to make your own personal decisions about your own personal health care. Period. That’s in the Constitution. Joe Biden would never violate that right. He’s been defending that right since before you were born. It’s your body, it’s your choice. Of course, as with everything these days, there are caveats. If you don’t take the shot that Joe Biden wants you to take — if you persist in making your own personal decisions about your own personal healthcare — then Joe Biden will have to shut the country down again. No socially distanced barbecues for you, buddy. You’ll have to eat your hot dogs alone, inside