script
 If you run, please come back and let us know. I appreciate it. That is tonight`s . "" starts now.

 Tonight on ALL IN.
 I`m not the only person on screen right now who has been falsely accused of a terrible sex act.
 The Matt Gaetz case gets even stranger. He now claims extortion as Republican leadership gets caught flatfooted by the investigation.
 No, I didn`t know about it. Yes, I`m surprised about it and yes, I want to get to the bottom of it. I haven`t been able to speak to Mr. Gaetz but I will.
 Tonight, the latest on the allegations against GOP Congressman Matt Gaetz and the Justice Department sex trafficking investigation. Then, an emotional day in court as witnesses recap what happened to George Floyd after Derek Chauvin pinned him down.
 George was motionless and Chauvin seemed very -- he was in a resting state, meaning, like, he just rested his knee on his neck.
 Then, as COVID cases surge in Wisconsin, Republicans shut down the governor`s masked mandate, while in Pennsylvania, infrastructure week finally arrives.
 It`s big, yes. It`s bold, yes. And we can get it done.
 Whenstarts now.

 Good evening from Washington D.C. I`m Mehdi Hasan in for . If you`ve been following the news today, you probably have heard a lot about the Justice Department investigation into Republican Congressman Matt Gaetz over potential sex trafficking tied to an alleged sexual relationship with a -year-old girl which Gaetz denies.
There have been a lot of crazy developments in this story since we first reported on it last night and we`re going to bring you all of them. But first, we thought it would be worth reminding you who Matt Gaetz was before he was under investigation in a child sex trafficking case because this guy is really something.
Gaetz is the son of wealthy former Florida Senate President Don Gaetz whose connections and deep pockets helped his son get elected to the Florida House and eventually to the United States Congress. In , Matt Gaetz was arrested on suspicion of drunk driving while driving his dad`s BMW. The charges were eventually dropped but the incident reinforced his local reputation as an entitled ne`er-do-well as one local paper described him.
Gaetz quickly became a controversial figure in the Florida House mocking food stamp recipients and facing accusations of racism for questioning the intelligence of two Black lawmakers. And then he came to Washington and quickly became known as one of Donald Trump`s staunchest defers with Gaetz gleefully trolling the former president`s critics and defing Trump`s most odious comments including on this very show after Trump denigrated the entire country of Haiti.
The U.S. Congressman gap Gaetz brought and accused holocaust denier to the State of the Union, suggested George Soros was paying Honduran kids to storm the U.S. border and hired an ex-White House aide ousted for white nationalist ties. When the father of a child murdered in the Parkland school shooting called Gaetz a liar for having the goal to tie immigration to those school shootings, Gaetz responded by demanding the father be removed from the hearing and going back to his talking points.
Gaetz wear a gas mask on the House floor last March to mock COVID concerns, and party maskless with members of the New York Young Republican Club in December near the height of the pandemic.
I could go on. There`s plenty more, but let`s  with this. In , Gaetz was the lone no-vote on an anti-human trafficking bill which brings us to the federal sex trafficking investigation into Matt Gaetz. The congressman says the allegations are invented and he suggests they`re tied to an extortion scheme which is now being investigated. But it`s important to note that these are two separate investigations and not necessarily even connected even if Gaetz wants you to think they are.
Last night, the congressman went on Fox News to give his side of the story. An interview like you didn`t see because you were quite rightly watchingat the time. Gaetz no doubt expected frily treatment from that network. That`s what Fox News gives to all Republicans. And he might have gotten it had he not attempted to throw the host of the show he was on and the host`s wife under the bus.

 I`m not the only person on screen right now who has been falsely accused of a terrible sex act. You were accused of something that you did not do and so you know what this feels like.
I can say that actually you and I went to dinner about two years ago, your wife was there, and I brought a fri of mine. You`ll remember her. And she was actually threatened by the FBI.
I really saw this as a deeply troubling challenge for my family on March th when people were, you know, talking about a minor, and that they were pictures of me with child prostitutes.

 I may have watched that clip a dozen times since last night. It went so well for him. I mean, if you`re a Republican, and you can`t get Tucker Carlson on your side, you probably have a problem on your hands.

 You just saw our Matt Gaetz interview. That was one of the weirdest interviews I`ve ever conducted. I don`t think that clarified much, but it certainly showed this as a deeply interesting story and we`ll be -- we`ll be following it. I don`t quite understand it.

 Well, he may not have won over Tucker. But you know who is defing Matt Gaetz today? None other than Republican Congressman Jim Jordan of Ohio, who used to be a wrestling coach at Ohio State and who former wrestlers say turned a blind eye to rampant sexual abuse by a team doctor who was molesting athletes, which Jordan denies. So, at least Gaetz has that going for him.
Last night, Democratic Representative Ted Lieu called for Gaetz to be removed from the House Judiciary Committee until the investigation is complete, saying he`s facing a Justice Department investigation. NBC News asked the House Republican leader, House Minority Leader Kevin McCarthy about that today.

 If a member of my conference gets indicted, they`ll get removed from a committee. He says this is not true, and we have a newspaper report that says something else.

 I`m pretty sure if it turns out to be the case that Matt Gaetz is a child sex trafficker, you`ll want to do more than just take him off the Judiciary Committee. Anyway, before we get to our guests tonight, there`s a couple of other things you need to know about this story. First, in that interview last night, Gaetz claimed that a former Justice Department attorney named David McGee, who`s long been in private practice, was behind the alleged extortion plot.
McGee`s law firm called the claim false and defamatory and McGee denied it to The Daily Beast speculating, "This is a blatant attempt to distract from the fact that Matt Gaetz is apparently about to be indicted for sex trafficking underage girls." We do not know if that is in fact the case.
The other name you need to know is Joel Greenberg, the former Seminole County Florida tax collector who posted this selfie with Gaetz and another man in front of the White House back in . Asdefinitely laid out last night, Greenberg is a character on this beyond belief. He was indicted on charges tied to alleged harassment and stalking of a political opponent, and allegedly used his position as the Seminole county tax collector to obtain surrered driver`s licenses and use them to create fake IDs for himself.
He was also charged with sex trafficking of a child between the ages of  and  and alleged in an indictment to have misused the state motor vehicle database to obtain information related to individuals with whom he "was engaged in sugar daddy relationships." He is not -- he has pleaded not guilty.
Just today, federal prosecutors filed a third superseding indictment against Greenberg, which involves stealing money from the tax collector`s office to buy cryptocurrency. The investigation into Matt Gaetz reportedly stemmed from the probe into Greenberg. And now, both men are facing investigations into sex trafficking involving a child.
Back in , Greenberg posted this selfie with Gaetz and Trump ally Roger Stone. And I can`t help but wonder, what their reaction would be if, I don`t know, AOC or Ilhan Omar were in a picture with a guy charged with sex trafficking of a child. QAnon would go crazy. Fox News would have a field day. And yet nobody seemed to care when Matt Gaetz did exactly that. At least not until now.
I`m joined by two people tonight with great insight in this case, New York Times justice reporter Katie Benner who first broke the story yesterday, and former federal prosecutor Cynthia Alksne who specialized in sex crime cases. Thank you both for your time tonight.
Katie, let me start with you. What have you learned since your initial shocking report yesterday?
 So, what we`ve learned in the last  hours is really more detail about the alleged extortion plot. Let`s keep in mind, the legit extortion plot is different from the allegations against Congressman Gaetz about child sex trafficking. That`s an investigation going on for more than half a year.
What happened a couple of weeks ago, his two men approached the congressman`s father Don Gaetz. They laid out a plan for him. They said, you know, in a document that that Congressman Gaetz did provide to the New York Times, these men said we are aware that your son might have legal issues, he might be under investigation by the FBI, we`re aware that this would hurt him. We`re also aware that you have money that we could use in order to do something great.
Bring back Robert Levinson, a man who disappeared in Iraq sent by somebody who the government has declared deceased but who people have been searching for a long time. They felt they had a lead on this, and that with that Don Gaetz`s money, they could bring this man back to the United States.
The hope would be -- this is a very convoluted scheme. The hope would be that the American government would be so happy that President Biden would be so happy, that Congressman Gaetz would be pardoned for any crimes. Don Gaetz, our sources tell us, felt that this was an unusual document. It was an unusual ask. He eventually contacted the FBI. He has worn a wire to two meetings with these men in at least two phone conversations.
 Yes. And that was -- the wire was what Matt Gaetz revealed on Twitter and then in his Tucker Carlson astonishing interview. Cynthia, just to be clear, if somebody is wearing a wire in an ongoing investigation, it`s not wise normally to out that person in the wire, especially if they`re your dad, is it?
 No, it`s not wise. But nothing is happening wise. It`s not wise to go on Tucker Carlson and accused him of other sexual peccadilloes. It`s not wise to go on Tucker Carlson and instead of denying that you had anything to do with the child -- with child sex trafficking, just denied that you traveled on interstate or, you know, you`d cross state lines, not that anybody was under . It doesn`t make any sense to do a lot of things that he`s done.
He mentioned oh, it was -- the people are saying that there are pictures with -- pornographic pictures with me and child prostitutes. It`s not really wise to bring that up, but that`s what he`s doing. And so, wisdom is not driving the day for Matt Gaetz.
 And, Cynthia, just to be clear, as Katie mentioned, the alleged extortion plot is not necessarily tied to the sex trafficking investigation, right? They`re two separate things.
 Yes, they`re totally unrelated. I mean, the extortion plot from what we understand is relatively recent, and the investigation into the Seminole County tax assessor has been going on for quite some time. And I might add, that in that investigation, they are upping the pressure and upping the pressure. He had  charges against him. And today, they filed  more. They are putting the pressure on him.
And what that means is, he is in more and more trouble and needs desperately to get some help. And the way to do that is to roll on somebody else. So, it`s a -- it`s a big concern for Gaetz that this man is in bigger and bigger trouble, because he may very well want to talk about Gaetz in order to save himself.
 Indeed, he may. So, let me ask you this, Katie. In your reporting, what have you discovered in terms of the connections between Matt Gaetz and Joel Greenberg, because we`ve seen the photos, we just put them up outside the White House with Roger Stone. I believe even in orsed him for potential congressional run. Gaetz did of Greenberg.
 Yes, and we know that Greenberg has been really public about his friship with Gaetz. It seems that Greenberg has almost flaunted it. He`s been very proud of it. Gaetz also, to your point, has been publicly supportive of Greenberg, but maybe a little bit more low-key about how close they really are.
We also know from our reporting that the two of them were known in Florida to sp a tremous amount of time together, a lot of social time together. They were at bars. They like to frequent hotel bars, and also that they like to be at parties together. So, they were really close social companions and that they were known to have a very active social dating life.
 And, yes, so I`m sure we`re going to discover more in the coming days. Let me ask you this, Cynthia. You have prosecuted crimes in this field. Talk to us about what this DOJ investigation not just into Greenberg, who was indicted, Matt Gaetz who was not indicted, but talk to us about what potential crimes we`re talking about, what laws are being broken, what the penalties are.
 The penalties are pretty severe. It deps on exactly what the age turns out to be. But the penalties are basic. Probably from what it sounds like, it`s a  year felony, which is to entice a person, a child under the age of , to cross state lines, to have sex with them for anything of value. And that could be paying them, it could be paying for their hotel, it could be paying for plane tickets.
And oddly, in Gaetz`s statement, he said, well, you know, in prior times with prior girlfris, you know, I was very generous, and I did pay for plane tickets. It`s kind of an odd thing to say given that those are the elements of the crime. So, again, this is a person who needs to exercise his Fifth Amment right and remain silent and get a lawyer.
 Matt Gaetz is not known for remaining silent. Let`s be honest about that. Katie, one last question to you. The lawyer Gaetz accuses of extortion, David McGee, said he did speak to Gaetz`s dad telling the Washington Post Don Gaetz called me and asked to talk to me, though would only say of their talk, it is a pleasant conversation of a dad concerned about his son and the trouble his son was in.
A lot of this revolves around the extortion part of this, involves around that conversation. McGee sounding very confident thing. Yes, if Gaetz wants to release the tapes, released the tapes if there are tapes.
 Yes, I think that we know of that conversations is they discussed the document that I mentioned earlier, which was this plan whereby they could, you know, find a missing American and bring him home with great triumph. I don`t -- I don`t get any indication from that conversation that any explicit asks were made, that anybody explicitly talked about a quid pro quo.
And so, while that -- the details of that investigation continue to emerge, you`re right, Mr. McGee does sound very confident. He himself did work at the Justice Department. He would have probably a firm grasp on his own legal liability. And so, we`ll have to see what happens.
 Yes, good point. Good point, Katie Benner and Cynthia Alksne --
 And Mehdi --
 We`ll have to leave it there. Thank you both so much. We`re -- unfortunately, we`re out of time, but thank you so much for your insights tonight. You helped us understand a very complicated story. I appreciate it.
Coming up, it`s infrastructure week in America. No, for real, this time, it`s infrastructure week. Pennsylvania`s Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman was with the president for the kickoff in Pittsburgh, and he`s here to talk to me about this next step in American relief and the looming battle it sets up in Congress. Don`t go away. We`ll be back after this short break.


 What I`m proposing is a one-time capital investment of roughly $ trillion in America`s future, spread largely over eight years. It will generate historic job growth, historic economic growth, help businesses to compete internationally and create more revenue as well.
Failing to make these investments adds to our debt effectively puts our children in disadvantage relative to our competitors. That`s what crumbling infrastructure does. And our infrastructure is crumbling.

 During the presidential campaign, Joe Biden promised a new infrastructure program worthy of an FDR or an LBJ. And today, in Pittsburgh, in an attempt to make good on that promise, Biden unveiled a national rebuilding program that would return government investment in research and infrastructure as a share of the economy to its highest levels since the s.
The $ trillion program focuses on traditional infrastructure like roads and bridges, as well as combating climate change. But is $ trillion enough, particularly when it comes to what is an existential threat to humanity? Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio Cortez says it isn`t nearly enough, and voters agree.
A new Politico Morning Consult poll out today shows registered voters by two to one margin would back a $ trillion infrastructure bill. Someone who was in Pittsburgh with the president today is Pennsylvania Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman, who`s now a candidate for the U.S. Senate, and he joins me now.
Thank you so much for coming on the show. $ trillion is a good start, a great start. But when AOC and other progressives point out that that`s over eight years, and so, it`s not enough money to rebuild American infrastructure given the challenges, they have a point that they?
 Sure. I mean, I would like to see it go bigger too. However, we are looking at a situation, as far as I know, is that there isn`t one single Republican that`s willing to bite and vote on it as it currently is right now in its current size and scope. So, it would seem that this would be the size that the Democratic coalition can hold together, and they would go proceed through reconciliation. That`s what it seems to me.
But of course, if we -- I mean, to me, that`s just one more reason to get rid of the filibuster. But my point would be bigger would be better, right? But at the same time, though, you know, $ trillion is still pretty sweet. I mean -- I mean, that`s, that`s going to be a lot of roads and bridges and a lot of, you know, millions of jobs. But without a doubt, it could go bigger.
 Yes. And I think we`ll both agree, and most people watching will agree that $ trillion is a great start. But can we go bigger? And given, you know, climate change, for example, it`s a huge challenge. Hundreds of billions just doesn`t cut it.
Recently, Senator Ed Markey was pushing for a $ trillion green infrastructure plan. And I think, you know, when you look at the  trillion, and then the two trillion, everything`s relative in life, I know, but you think we could go bigger if we really want to take climate change seriously.
 Yes, absolutely. And without a doubt, climate change is an existential threat. And we do need to address it. However, when we won`t get a single Republican vote with it currently right now, and if this is the maximum the Democratic caucus can maintain -- to maintain their  vote and Vice President Harris breaking the tiebreaker and proceeding through reconciliation, you know, I`m going to be ultimately OK with that, because this would be a first down payment on infrastructure.
As far as I`m concerned, Joe Biden is living up to his promise. He promised infrastructure week, today in Pittsburgh, it was infrastructure week.
 So, talk to me about what this bill, this proposal, as it currently stands, will mean for Pittsburgh and for Pennsylvania more broadly.
 I mean, it would mean everything. I mean, it`d mean everything. My gosh, I said this earlier today. It`s like, if infrastructure is Elvis, Pittsburg in western Pennsylvania, is Graceland. And that`s why Joe was here. He understood that. He was born in Pennsylvania. He gets it. He knows Pittsburgh, and Pennsylvania`s contribution to our original infrastructure, which made us a great industrial power. So, he knows that.
And this plan, again, of course, we`d all like to see it bigger as Democrats and we could make that case. But if the votes aren`t there and if this is the maximum that our caucus will allow, I`m going to be OK with $ trillion because I know firsthand the number of bridges, roads, water systems, all kinds of infrastructure improvements that red and blue county Pennsylvania use.
And this is going to be a boon for the union way of life, millions of new jobs and investment and a downpayment on the next wave of American prosperity that original investments and infrastructure produced in which my children who are now young will be able to partake and benefit from.
 So -- indeed. And so, as we mentioned a moment ago, the poll show, it`s a very popular thing to sp money on, popular with Democrats and Republicans, the public at large, infrastructure sping. Here`s a tweet from Ed Mortimer, the vice president of Transportation Infrastructure. "The U.S. Chamber of Commerce just a few weeks ago saying our members are willing to stand behind elected leaders in both parties who will vote to do the right thing and make those needed investments."
And as you say, though, not a single Republican is fighting for it, though. And today Mitch McConnell said that Biden called him yesterday to talk about the new infrastructure plan. And yet the GOP leader signaled his opposition to the proposal, pointing to the tax hikes. Have a listen.

 My advice to the administration is you want to do an infrastructure bill, let`s do an infrastructure bill. Let`s don`t turn it into a massive effort to raise taxes on businesses and individuals.

 How do you think that kind of rhetoric and the general negativity of the Republican Party, first to the American Rescue Plan, now for this infrastructure proposal. How is that going to play on the ground in states like Pennsylvania, a swing state?
 Yes, of course. I mean, let`s be honest here. Leader McConnell is being grossly disingenuous. This isn`t about raising taxes. This is about recalibrating a corporate income tax that never should have been lowered the way it was under the Trump administration, much lower than even the corporation`s themselves ask for.
So, right off the bat, that`s disingenuous. They`re not raising any taxes on individuals and he knows that. So, that`s just the negative spin, you know. And if Mitch McConnell is for something, chances are I`m going to be against it. But this is just one more example of the Republicans and the filibuster holding back America from big plans that a majority of Americans want.
So, to me, I think it`s like if the $ trillion is as big as we can get right now, I think we need to be -- hey, that`s, that`s pretty good. But it also should be a lesson and a roadmap in eliminating the filibuster.
 And on that note, it`s easy to attack Mitch McConnell, I agree with you, if he`s on one side of the issue, better to be on the other. And yet, you have Joe Manchin in your party, a senator from West Virginia who doesn`t want to get rid of the filibuster, who thinks that  percent corporation tax right now that Biden wants to raise to  percent, he doesn`t want to go to  percent. He wants somewhere in the middle. So, he could be a block on a lot of the stuff you want to do and your party wants to do. What`s your message to Joe Manchin?
 I would say, that`s disappointing, absolutely. Joe also doesn`t think that a single mother that works full time shouldn`t bring home at least $, a year with a $. an hour minimum wage. And that`s one of the issues that he and I fundamentally disagree on.
And my understanding is he was one of the impediments to including a $. an hour living wage in the American Rescue Plan. So, this is that this is the point I`m trying to make. If we`re going to get tripped up by one or two outlying members like Senator Manchin, and if two trillions as big as we can get, but it`s just one of many number of areas that Senator Manchin and I disagree on right now.
 Yes. So, on that note, one last question, very little time left. Let me just throw this at you. You`re running for the Senate in Pennsylvania. The Senate is using reconciliation to get legislation through because of the filibuster. It`s messed up in many ways. So, I would ask you, how dysfunctional is the chamber that you`re trying to become a member of?
 I just would say relax, it`s much worse than you think, you know, and it`s -- like, the way it is right now, it just is dysfunctional. And but I can promise you, if I`m lucky enough to be elevated by the people of Pennsylvania, you`re going to have a solid, progressive voice for a $. an hour minimum wage, eliminating the filibuster if that`s what it`s going to take to get rid of these impediments, common sense gun control reforms.
I mean, all these things, and a real infrastructure bill, I mean, beyond what we already have in front of us. Republicans impeding progress, it`s going to all come down to, unfortunately, the filibuster and making sure that we put a Democrat in Pat Toomey seat coming out here in Pennsylvania for .
 Well, we`ll have to leave it there. Thank you so much for that. Lieutenant Governor John Fetterman of Pennsylvania, I appreciate you taking time out for us tonight.
 Thanks for having me on.
 Still ahead, another gutting day in the Derek Chauvin murder trial, and our first real look at the police bodycam video. Former Prosecutor Paul Butler has been watching every minute of it and he joins me next.

 The third day of the trial of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin brought even more absolutely gutting testimony. Today, we heard from -year-old Charles McMillan, one of the only witnesses to see the full encounter between Chauvin and his fellow officers and George Floyd.
Prosecutors showed McMillan and the jury footage taken from the officers` body cameras, depicting the moments where the officers removed George Floyd from the police car and put him on the ground where Chauvin holds his knee to Floyd`s neck for nine minutes and  seconds.
In that video from the officers` point of view, you can clearly hear George Floyd pleading with them, telling them he can`t breathe, and calling for his mother. That`s what`s happening in the moment we`re about to play for you, the moment that led to this outpouring of emotion from Mr. McMillan.

 Mr. McMillan, do you need a minute?
 Oh, my God.
 I know that this is difficult. Can you just explain sort of what you`re feeling from this moment?
 I can`t him. I`m helpless. I don`t have a mama either. I just 

 Prosecutors also showed video of an interaction McMillan had with former officer Chauvin after the ambulance left the scene. McMillan is arguing with Chauvin expressing his distressed about what he saw happen. And Chauvin tries to justify his actions.

 That`s one person`s opinion.
 No, I know. I got an opinion. I got an opinion --
 We got to -- we got to control this guy because he`s a sizable guy.
 Yes. And I got --
 And it looks like -- it looks like he`s probably on to something.

 Policing Black Men. He joins me now. Paul, thanks so much for coming on the show. Did the testimony we heard today hurt the defense?
 Absolutely. Mehdi, the whole world has seen the video of George Floyd dying. Today, the jury got to see him alive, laughing, and joking and having a conversation about football versus baseball. He looks relaxed and easygoing.
Contrast that with a defense opening statement that presented Floyd as this big, violent dude, who was high on drugs, committing a crime, and had this brute strength that not even three officers could subdue. That`s not what the video showed, Mehdi. Today, you can see how Floyd got his nickname. They call him The Gentle Giant.
 Well, let`s just play some of that body camera footage that we saw today. Here`s one portion.

 Take a seat. Sit down for me.
 Thank you, man. Thank you.
 Yes, sit down.
 Thank you, man. God.
 Sit all the way down.
 Yes, sir. Yes, sir. I will. Hey, man. Please, please, man.
 You got an ID on you?
 I got one.
 All right, what`s your name?
 George Perry Floyd. I think -- I don`t know what`s going on. Man, it is --
 Spell that for me.
 G-E-O-
 Yes.
 R-G-E.
 Last name.
 Floyd, F-L-O-Y-D.

 You see George Floyd there, Paul, speaking in that video to the police in that body camera video, their perspective. Do you think that humanizes him to a jury and how important is that in a trial like this?
 It`s crucial to convict Chauvbin of murder. Prosecutors have to prove that he used unreasonable and excessive force. And that Chauvin`s knee on Floyd`s neck is what killed Floyd and not the drug overdose as a defense claims.
So, every witness has to establish one of those points. So, Christopher Martin, the young clerk, let the jury know that George Floyd was under the influence of drugs during the time of his fatal encounter with the cops, the prosecutors want the defense not to be the first people to let the jury know that. Trial judges always want to -- trial lawyers always want to be the ones who tell the jury their bad facts, so the jury doesn`t think that they were trying to hide something from them.
But then, the video shows Mr. Floyd looking quite coherent and in control. He doesn`t look like a man who`s about to O.D. on meth. And Martin also helps the prosecutors establish your case about excessive force, Mehdi, all this over a $. bill that Floyd probably didn`t even know was fake.
But the officers approached Mr. Floyd like he`s public enemy number one. Within seconds, a cop was pointing his gun at Mr. Floyd. And then he`s on the ground in handcuffs. If what the cops are doing looks over the top, the prosecutors want the jury to know that they can believe their own eyes.
 You said they approached him like he was public enemy number one. And we`ve seen that in many cases involving unarmed Black men. You`ve written a book about the policing of Black men. What do you think about how race is being talked about or not talked about in this trial so far?
 You know, Mehdi, to the world, this case is about race and it`s about whether a police officer could ever be held accountable when he kills an African-American man. But race in these cases usually doesn`t come up explicitly in the courtroom. So, the judge will try to focus the jury on the evidence and treat this like any other murder case.
At the same time, the defense opening statement again, presents Mr. Floyd as this big, huge Black man committing a crime, high on drugs, with superhuman strength. They`re trying to establish that Chauvin`s use of force was reasonable, but there are concerned that they`re also invoking racist stereotypes.
Mehdi, that defense strategy worked  years ago to put the officers who beat up Rodney King. I don`t know with this jury in  if that strategy will have the same impact.
 It`s a very good point. Times have changed. This is a rare prosecution of a former police officer for murder. It`s historic. And you`re right. It will be very interesting to see what happens next. Paul Butler, we appreciate you coming on and giving us your insights. Former prosecutor Paul Butler, thank you much.
 It was a pleasure.
 Tonight, could the growing backlash to Georgia`s horrific voter suppression law prevent other states from following suit? Is this a sign that pressure works? We`ll talk about that after this short break.

 Who says activism is a waste of time? Who says calling for a boycott doesn`t have any impact on corporate America? You`ve probably heard about the new law Republicans passed in Georgia that makes it harder for people especially Black people to vote, and that President Joe Biden called it Jim Crow in the st century.
Just a few days ago, Delta Airlines, one of the largest companies based in Georgia put out a ridiculously mealy-mouthed statement where they glossed over the restrictive parts of the new law while lauding other parts of the bill. "The legislation signed this week improved considerably during the legislative process."
Coca-Cola, another big Georgia-based company also issued a cautious statement that did not outright condemn the legislation. But the backlash to the new law was so severe that today Delta CEO released a statement saying, and I quote, "I need to make it crystal clear that the final bill is unacceptable and does not match Delta`s values. After having time to now fully understand all that is in the bill coupled with discussions with leaders and employees in the Black community, it`s evident that the bill includes provisions that will make it harder for many underrepresented voters, particularly Black voters to exercise their constitutional right to elect their representatives. That is wrong. The entire rationale for this bill was based on a lie that there was widespread voter fraud in Georgia in the  elections. This is simply not true. Unfortunately, that excuses being used in states across the nation that are attempting to pass similar legislation to restrict voting rights."
That is quite a pivot from the legislation improved during the process. A few hours later, the Coca Cola CEO appeared on CNBC to say this.

 Let me be crystal clear and unequivocal. This legislation is unacceptable. It is a step backwards and it does not promote principles we have stood for in Georgia around broad access to voting, around voter convenience about ensuring election integrity. And this is -- this is frankly, just a step backwards.

 These CEO pivots happened because activists have been successfully putting pressure on the corporations. Today,  Black executive signed a letter calling on companies to take a stand against efforts to make voting harder. Former American Express CEO Kenneth Chenault who is Black told NBC News, "It`s not enough to issue a general statement and say we believe in fair elections. The issue is what do you say in Georgia, Florida, Indiana. You have to publicly oppose and you have to bring your resources to bear to try to effectuate the right outcome."
Now, some people might say too little too late, and that`s true. The bill is now law in Georgia. On the other hand, as we reported on this show yesterday, this is now a nationwide voter suppression attempt by Republicans. And if the backlash in Georgia prevents other states from going through with it, that`s a good thing. So, it`s important to keep up the pressure.
Remember, democracy is at stake. Free and fair elections are on the line. Many of us have not surprisingly focused on that odious part of the bill that bans people from giving water to voters waiting in line. It naturally grabs our attention.  But it`s not the worst thing in the bill. The worst thing in the bill is that now the Republican-controlled legislature in Georgia basically is in charge of elections there and it`ll decide which votes count in Georgia and which don`t.
Let`s be very clear. If this law had been in existence in November of , Donald Trump would have won Georgia, and Raphael Warnock and Jon Ossoff would not now be members of the Senate. It`s as blatant and undeniable as that.
Now, yesterday, we also did a deep dive into Florida`s utter failure at keeping residents safe during the pandemic, where under the leadership of Governor Ron DeSantis, Republicans have spent the last year basically preting that the Coronavirus isn`t a big deal. Well, tonight, we`re going to talk about what`s happening in Wisconsin, which has a Democratic governor whose COVID precautions are being completely undermined by Republicans, even as cases are on the rise. That`s next.

 COVID cases in the state of Wisconsin are pretty worrying right now. After sliding earlier this year, the seven-day daily case average is moving back up, now at  as of today. So, how are Republicans in that state responding to the resurgence of the deadly Coronavirus? By getting rid of the Democratic Governor`s masked mandate via the courts.
In a type four-three decision, conservatives on the Wisconsin State Supreme Court struck down the statewide mask mandate today ruling the Democratic Governor Tony Evers basically cannot issue another health emergency for the coronavirus pandemic without approval from the Republican-controlled legislature, even though as Evers argued, the nature of the pandemic has changed and he should be able to issue multiple health emergencies as a result of that.
I want to bring in someone who is trying to fight the COVID epidemic in Wisconsin, even as Republicans and the courts are tying his hands, Wisconsin`s Lieutenant Governor Mandela Barnes. Thanks so much for coming on the show tonight.
Lieutenant Governor, let me start with a very simple question. Are people in your state going to die because of this clearly partisan decision from the State Supreme Court?
 I`ll say that the unfortunate result of decisions like these do impact the health of people across the state of Wisconsin and all across the country. You know, as has been reported, we could have been a lot better across the entire United States of America if we`ve taken the lessons that we`ve learned after the first , deaths.
You know, the amount of death that we had in this state was unnecessary in the first place. If only people were taking the necessary precautions. And that means Republican legislators taking this pandemic seriously, they still seem to think it`s a joke for whatever reason, and the Supreme Court has acted as a partisan arm of the Republican-controlled legislature.
So, people`s health and safety will tremously be impacted. People decide that they don`t want to follow proper guidance from the CDC or proper health guidance that has already done a miracle up until the vaccine in mitigating this crisis.
 So, you mentioned the state Supreme Court and it`s linked to the Republican-led state legislature, something that caught my eye today. The Wisconsin State Journal reports that "The case in this particular example was brought by major Republican donor Jerry Fabick. In , Fabick gave $, to conservative Wisconsin Supreme Court Justice Rebecca Bradley. How on earth is that OK, Lieutenant Governor? Shouldn`t Justice Bradley have recused herself from this case which was decided by one vote?
 It`s not at all -- it`s not at all OK? It`s emblematic of a corrupt system that we have when so much money is allowed to flow into elections. And I`ve already talked about the fallacy of non-partisan force. That is a joke. And we see it played out time and time again, because they had -- this isn`t the first time they`ve challenged the governor`s ability to issue an emergency order.
But with situations like this where the Supreme Court is able to just make decisions at will mostly with a partisan lens, the fact that a Republican donor brought the case in front of her donated the maximum amount for an individual, it raise a corruption.
But this is the type of stuff that people across Wisconsin -- all over Wisconsin and all across the country are upset and frustrated about because not only is government been involved, but we see Supreme Court decisions that impact people`s health and safety being paid for and is right out there in the open.
And I guess given the last four years of Donald Trump, people just think anything is acceptable. And that`s where we find ourselves.
 That`s a very good point, a very depressing point, but a good point. So, what do you and Governor Tony Evers do now? Do you just throw your hands up in the air, concede defeat, give up because this is the highest court in the state.
 Never. Giving up is never an option. We were elected for a reason. We were elected to make sure that we keep the health and safety in mind of people all across the state regardless of what your political affiliation is, regardless of what part of the state you live in, you deserve opportunity. You deserve to live a happy, healthy and prosperous life.
So, it`s important for us to make sure that we continue to do whatever we possibly can. I`m proud to say that we`re number one in getting shots in people`s arms. That is a great sign. But until we reach herd immunity, it is important for people to still wear masks. The mass requirement, like I said, it was the thing that got us to where we are up until vaccines became available. It`s what, you know, prevented even more mass casualty across the country.
So, no, we`re not giving up. Why would we ever give up? We weren`t elected to give up. We were likely to continue to fight.
 Question, the state Supreme Court has shut down the emergency powers of the governor and the mask mandate with it. What does this mean for local mass mandates? Can local areas, can counties in Wisconsin still do it even without a statewide mass mandate?
 Yes, I would -- so, I`ve talked to a couple people who are -- who are ready to keep their orders in place because they are the last line of defense. Local government is ultimately -- and I`m not going to say the last line of defense because like I said, we`re not giving up. But until we make our next step, it`s important for local government to fill in the gaps as they have been doing for so long in the face of Republican opposition.
So, I applaud the local leaders who are going to do the right thing because they know that businesses can stay for real. We can`t go back to normal if people are sick, if we`re seeing tremous loss of life, if we`re overwhelming our hospital system as was the case just a few months ago.
 Yes, exactly. What does this mean for food aid for vulnerable people in Wisconsin? Because the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reports that quote, the decision by the court could also cut off $ million a month in federal food assistance to low-income people.
Since last year, Congress has agreed to dramatically increase funding for food programs in states that have emergency orders in place. You`ve lost your emergency order, thanks to your court. Does that mean you lose $ million a month for low-income people in Wisconsin?
 Republicans in the legislature and the Supreme Court knew this is going to , and they still did it because they quite frankly don`t care. I wish they did. There are so many people who are hungry. We`re not back to the employment levels that we have before. I mean, people are, you know, across the country where some seven, eight million people are now find themselves in poverty, food insecure.
It`s a total slap in the face and it`s a disregard to our -- it shows a blatant disregard for the most vulnerable people in our society. We don`t have -- there aren`t adults that are -- that are making these decisions. It`s purely partisan and it`s ignorant of reality.
 Last question, I got  seconds left, but I`m going to ask you this. You probably won`t answer but I`ll ask anyway. I just interviewed another Lieutenant Governor in Pennsylvania who`s running for the Senate. If Ron  steps down in your state, a very controversial Republican senator, are you`re going to make a similar Senate run?
 What I will say is what Ron  does has no -- has nothing to do with what my decision will be.
 OK, that`s interesting. It`s not a denial. So, you are considering a Senate run.
 Well, I`ve talked to a lot of people who`ve brought it to me and I am truly appreciative of the encouragement. And this is a moment where we do need leaders, but I haven`t made up my mind yet. We still have so much work to do to bring relief to people across the state.
We have our Badger Bounceback aga, which is our state budget. It`s going to provide relief to our schools, to our communities, to our small businesses. There`s more enough work to do right here at home and maybe one day I`ll have an answer for you.
 OK. Fair enough. I had to try. Lieutenant Governor Mandela Barnes, thank you so much for making time tonight.
 Thank you.


 Oh, you will get the vaccine, Rachel. It`s only a matter of time. Especially, according to what the president said today. Everyone is getting this vaccine -- eligible, for it, certainly, by the middle of May -- April. April. So --
 I know. But -- but a matter of time is, like, the matter of time. Exactly. Like, I just feel like -- I feel like I`m hanging by my fingernails. You know what it is? I`m really, really ready.
 Once you -- once you meet the qualifications, I have seen this with many people. The minute they meet the qualifications in their state, suddenly, it becomes the most urgent thing in their lives. And many of them, the week before, thought, I`ll get it when I get it. And then, it was just instantly refresh, refresh, refresh, just like you say.
 a.m., really? Are you kidding me? I`m going to look like the living dead, on tomorrow night`sSHOW. I can tell you right now.
 Well, we have the camera crew ready to go for whenever you do get that shot. We`ll record it for history. Thank you, Rachel.
 Thank you, .
 Thank you.
Well, even before the first day of testimony, today, in the murder trial of former police officer, Derek Chauvin. What Derek Chauvin did to George Floyd, on video, in the last moments of George Floyd`s life has changed the landscape of policing in America, police departments all over the country, including in America`s biggest-police department, New York City.
The , members of the NYPD will no longer be protected from being sued for misconduct by the legal doctrine of qualified immunity. The city of Minneapolis has, already, reached a settlement with George Floyd`s family in their wrongful-death lawsuit, against Derek Chauvin and the Minneapolis Police Department. The settlement in the George Floyd wrongful-death case is the largest, in the history of lawsuits against police officers in America, $ million. That is more than the annual budget of most police departments in the United States.
After Derek Chauvin`s defense lawyer made his opening statement, today, it became very clear, that this case, as presented to the jury from the defense perspective, is going to be all about specific cause of death.

 What was Mr. Floyd`s actual cause of death? The evidence will show that Mr. Floyd died of a cardiac arrhythmia that occurred as a result of hypertension, his coronary disease, the ingestion of methamphetamine, and fentanyl, and the adrenaline flowing through his body. All of which, acted to further compromise an already-compromised heart.

 The prosecution believes that the medical examiner`s testimony and the eyewitness testimony, as delivered on video in the courtroom today, will show that Derek Chauvin violated his police department`s own rules, in what was not a split-second decision, but a nine-minute decision. That murdered George Floyd.
Most trial observers, today, agree that the most powerful part of Assistant Attorney General Jerry Blackwell`s opening statement for the prosecution was his use of the disturbing video of Derek Chauvin`s knee on George Floyd`s neck. Some of which, I must warn you, is included in this trial video, that we`re about to show right now of the prosecutor`s opening statement.

 You will learn that, on may th of , Mr. Derek Chauvin betrayed this badge. When used excessive and unreasonable force upon the body of Mr. George Floyd. That he put his knees upon his neck and his back, grinding and crushing him, until the very breath -- no, ladies and gentlemen, until the very life were squeezed out of him.
You will learn that he was well aware that Mr. Floyd was unarmed, that Mr. Floyd had not threatened anyone. That Mr. Floyd was in handcuffs. He was completely in the control of the police. He was defenseless.
You will learn what happened in that  minutes and  seconds. The most important numbers you will hear in this trial are , , . What happened in those  minutes and  seconds when Mr. Derek Chauvin was applying this excessive force to the body of Mr. George Floyd.

 Of course, there would be no prosecution of the murder of George Floyd if it were not for the civilian witnesses who did their duty, as citizens, and tried to stop Derek Chauvin. Stop him, verbally. Telling him to stop.
Seventeen-year-old Darnella Frazier performed a heroic service when she aimed her phone at Derek Chauvin and George Floyd, and recorded over-eight minutes of Derek Chauvin squeezing the life out of George Floyd, as the prosecutor put it today.
Assistant attorney general, Jerry Blackwell, described those witnesses today in his opening statement.

 They come from the broad spectrum of humanity. Different races. Different gers. You have older people, younger people.
But you will see that what they all had in common, as they were going about their business, is that they saw something that was shocking to them, that was disturbing to them, and it made them stop and take note. Stop and take note.
They tried to, first, you will learn, when you meet them, to intercede on what was happening with their voices. They tried to interject, to exhort, to please stop, to try to get into what we call good trouble just with their voices, because something was concerning to them. And when that didn`t work, you can see any number of them pulled out their cameras, to document what was happening, such that it would be memorialized, such that it would not be misrepresented, such that it could not be forgotten.
With respect to these bystanders, none of them knew who George Floyd was. They didn`t know his history. They didn`t know anything about him. All they knew was they came up on an individual, that they saw was in some serious distress, under the knees of Mr. Chauvin. And it alarmed them.

 And Darnella Frazier`s video of what they saw alarmed the world. Darnella Frazier`s video provoked protests against what happened to George Floyd, not just in Minneapolis, and protests not just across the United States, but protests around the world.
House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, passed through the House of Representatives, this month, a bill that she titled, the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act. That bill bans the use of all-neck restraints, including the restraint use by Derek Chauvin in the murder of George Floyd. It also bans use of no- knock warrants in drug cases like the warrant used in the police killing of Breonna Taylor in Louisville, Kentucky, where police raided her home just after midnight, when she and her boyfri were asleep. That`s where she was killed, in her home.
The bill, also, restricts the use of the qualified immunity, which protects police officers from police brutality lawsuits and wrongful-death lawsuits.
Last week, the New York city council passed a bill that the mayor has said he will sign. That eliminates the protection of qualified immunity in police brutality lawsuits and wrongful-death lawsuits against police.
Leading off our discussion tonight is Corey , speaker of the New York City Council, and Marq Claxton, former New York City police detective and director of the Black Law Enforcement Alliance.
And, Marq, let me begin with you tonight and just give you kind of the open question of what did you see in the opening of the trial, today, with the first couple of witnesses that were, basically, establishing some of the radio traffic that was in the -- that was used in the -- in the -- by the police, and a video that was made by one person who was watching.

 It was just additional, did disturbing, and troubling and painful evidence and video and conversation, and urging by individuals who were witnessing the killing of Mr. Floyd. So, it was just a continuation of -- of that pain that -- that across the country are feeling every time they have to be exposed to that level of violence and that extrajudicial killing.

 And, Corey , New York City has had its own issues with a police department that big. Obviously, it`s going to have these kind of cases, Eric Garner and others over the years. But the George Floyd case was different, everywhere, including New York City. Probably, the largest protest you`ve ever had in New York City over police misconduct that took place somewhere else.
And how did that inform the city council approaching this qualified- immunity issue?
 Well, , first of all, thank you for having me. And, you know, what we saw in the Floyd trial, today. I think, is traumatizing because people are reliving the horror of watching George Floyd be murdered last May. And so, in New York City, we have undertaken a series of bills to reform policing in our city.
And I just want to mention, , you`ve written, of course, about policing. But the legal doctrine of qualified immunity was created in . And it`s important for your viewers to understand, it was created because the police were arresting  priests, who were freedom riders in Mississippi. That case went to the Supreme Court, Pearson versus Ray. And that is where the legal doctrine of qualified immunity was created.
It`s not in the Constitution. It`s not in any-state constitution. It`s not in any law, across the country. It was created in , created out of trying to be able to arrest freedom riders in Mississippi.
And what has happened since then, as people have leaned on this, and used this. So police officers who are violating people`s civil rights, who are using excessive force, can basically say we have no liability here because of qualified immunity.
And the worst example, , that we are seeing right now is the New York state attorney general, Letitia James, has brought a lawsuit against the New York City Police Department for the excessive force used against protestors last summer. The protests that we`re seeing on TV, right now.
And the New York City Police Department and the law department, which is representing the police department in New York City, is saying none of those cops, who used excessive force last summer, should be held liable because of qualified immunity. I mean, protestors that were protesting the death of George Floyd, the murder of George Floyd. Now, we`re saying those cops are exempt because of qualified immunity.
We passed a bill, on Thursday, saying there is no -- or limited qualified immunity for violations of the Fourth Amment, search and seizure, and the th Amment saying you no longer have that right. New York City is following the states of Colorado and Connecticut. New York City is larger, population wise, than Colorado and Connecticut.
And we hope that other police departments in cities and in states, across the country, follow our lead to  qualified immunity. It is a broken legal doctrine that never should have been created in . And it`s time to abolish it, now.
 And, Marq, what Speaker  is stressing for us is the importance of civil litigation, here, which, for observers, like you and me, was kind of the only litigation we saw for decades. People -- police officers, simply, were not getting criminally prosecuted for cases like this, the way Derek Chauvin is now.
And the protest movement has definitely moved beyond the stage. Where civil litigation or even civil awards like that $ million is a satisfactory outcome in cases like this. And so, a lot rides on this criminal trial, in Minneapolis.
 Yeah, definitely. And -- and in regards to qualified immunity and the decision in New York. It`s hugely impactful, for two reasons. One reason is because, as the speaker indicated, and what he`s hoping for, is that it`s replicated throughout the nation. Other entities, other departments, other cities, decide to follow this lead.
And the second reason is because police officers will definitely respond to the elimination of qualified immunity. Not just the limitation of it, as other jurisdictions are -- have done. But the actual elimination of qualified immunity really exposes individual police officers. And police officers will respond, in one way or another.
And -- and their response may shift, according to the time. Because, quite frankly, it -- it should be expected that the knee-jerk reaction for police officers, when you are talking about exposing them to the possibility of additional civil liability, personally. The knee-jerk reaction is going to be for them to withdraw, to pull back while they recalibrate and determine their options, while they do a self-assessment of a risk-cost analysis, if you will.
So, it is quite probable that activity, from the police, will decrease, for at least a short period, now. But the long-term impact is so positive, because you will now have -- you now have legislation that can actually change the course of conduct of individual police officers, which is hugely significant when you are talking about trying to shift the police culture, and specifically, toxic-police culture. So when you hit police officers in their pockets, increasing their civil liability, they will respond. And begin to recalibrate their actions. And that leads to a better, more professional-police agency.
 We`re going to have to leave that discussion, here, for tonight. We will be coming back to it. We really appreciate it.
Marq Claxton and New York City Council speaker, Corey  -- thank you, both, very much for starting off our discussion tonight.
: Thanks, .
 Thank you.
And coming up. We have breaking news, tonight. On the prosecution of the Trump mob that attacked the Capitol. A new brief by federal prosecutors, today, details one of the attackers and -- is accused of threatening to assassinate Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, on Twitter, while he was right there in the Capitol.

 Tonight, we`re following breaking news on the investigation of the Trump mob that attacked the Capitol on January th. Last week, Donald Trump said that they were kissing Capitol police officers, after they invaded the Capitol.
Today, prosecutors said that Garrett Miller was plotting to assassinate a Capitol police officer. In a brief, filed today, arguing that Garrett Miller should not be released from custody ping trial, federal prosecutors said, quote, after the riots, Miller returned to Texas but was consumed with identifying the United States Capitol police officer involved in the fatal shooting of a rioter, Ashli Babbitt, on January th, .
On January th, , Miller asked, on Instagram, about the officer, how could he execute an unarmed woman, feet away? His execution must be televised.
Later, in the conversation, Miller states, I`m threatening justice on criminals. And sent a picture of a rope tied to a noose. He, then, stated, about the officer, whom Miller believed to be African-American, he`s a prize to be taken. And he will swing. I had a rope in my bag on that day. Meaning, January th, .
Garrett Miller is, also, charged with threatening to assassinate Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, on January th, during the attack on the Capitol. When the congresswoman issued a one-word tweet during the riot, which said, impeach. Garrett Miller replied to her with, "|assassinate AOC".
When Garrett Miller was arrested, prosecutors say he, quote, was wearing a T-shirt with a photograph of president Trump that said, take America back. And I was there. Washington, D.C., January th, .
Writing your confession on your T-shirt is the new level of criminal stupidity we`ve come to expect from the Trump mob. Five days after the attack on the Capitol, Garrett Miller sent a photograph of himself inside the Capitol rotunda, to a fri, saying, quote, just wanted to incriminate myself a little. LOL.
Joining us now, Glenn Kirschner, former federal prosecutor and  legal analyst. Glenn, this is really a striking filing by the prosecutors, about these two assassination ambitions of this guy. One, congresswoman. The other, a Capitol police officer, who he wants to track down and find and -- enlist people in trying to find that Capitol police officer.
To assassinate that Capitol police officer, this same person is asking to, let me out of -- of -- of jail while I`m awaiting trial. I`m not a danger to anyone.
 And the good news is he remains behind bars, at this moment. And given the filing from the federal prosecutors, I`m fairly confident, , he will remain behind bars ping trial.
But, you know, this really does frame what we heard from Donald Trump. Donald Trump says that, you know, my supporters, that they were hugging and kissing the police when, perhaps, Donald Trump misspoke. They were really hanging and killing the police or at least aspiring to.
So, you know, but -- I -- I hope, , that we don`t lose sight of the forest for the conspiratorial trees because we are looking at what Donald Trump`s foot soldiers did on January th. And whether it`s the Proud Boys or the Oath Keepers and we want to know, you know, where does Garrett Miller fit in? Is he part of a conspiracy? All of which is important and I`m confident the prosecutors will sort that all out.
But we should remember, and blast out, every day, that they were doing the work that Donald Trump put them up to. He`s the one who encouraged. He organized. He, in a very real sense, incited this attack on the U.S. Capitol. And, , every one of these defants, who is getting locked up, the ones who choose to speak to the police. You know what most of them are saying? I was only doing what my president told me to do.
You know, this is like a call-and-response conspiracy where Donald Trump put out the call, and all of his supporters, his minions, his insurrectionists, followed his command. That`s why this case must build to Donald Trump.
 Glenn, this is another defant who, where the evidence shows that gun control works, because there`s information here about him being -- bringing a grappling hook, obviously, for scaling the walls,. bringing all this equipment that he planned to bring. And he specifically says, in evidence that they obtained, that he wasn`t going to bring his gun in -- any of his guns -- into the District of Columbia, from Virginia, because they are illegal there.
And so, he lived in fear of the gun-control laws in Washington, D.C. and that`s one of the reasons that he and a lot of his fris did not go running into the Capitol with guns firing.
 You know, fancy that, , that when there are gun laws in place or background checks in place, or bans on assault weapons or high- capacity magazines in place, those laws can actually have an impact on the thinking of somebody, who might, otherwise, want to take up a gun and do some harm with it.
So, you know, if we have learned nothing, courtesy of the mass shootings, perhaps, we should learn from these insurrectionists. Who are actually saying, you know, I did take D.C.`s strict-gun laws into account, and I decided to leave my gun at home. I only brought my rope and my, you know, Trump flag with a spear on the  of it.
 Glenn Kirschner, thank you, very much, for joining us tonight. Really appreciate it.
 Thank you, .
 Thank you.
And coming up, last year, in the first few weeks of the coronavirus pandemic, watching Deborah Birx, Dr. Deborah Birx, was disconcerting because she seemed knowledgeable, and she seemed to have the respect of all of her colleagues. But she, also, seemed to be trying, in every way that she could, to help shield Donald Trump from criticism. And then, came the moment, about a year ago, where she told a grotesque lie, on TV, when she said that Donald Trump was a careful student of the medical literature.
That`s one that I -- that`s when I knew that she would lie for Donald Trump and I said so here, at that time. And now, she is admitting that the lies that she supported killed hundreds of thousands of people. That`s next.

 Dr. Deborah Birx has confessed to being partially responsible, along with Donald Trump, for hundreds of thousands of deaths from COVID- in this country. In an interview last night, Dr. Birx said there was nothing they could have done about the first , deaths but the next , deaths could have been greatly reduced.

 The first time, we have an excuse. There were about , deaths that came from that original surge. All of the rest of them, in my mind, could have been mitigated or decreased substantially, if we took the lessons we had learned from that moment. That`s what bothers me every day.

 Dr. Birx lied for Donald Trump last year. March th of last year was the first time we saw her blatantly lie for Donald Trump. And we called that a lie on this program at the time. It`s the first time I used that word in relation to her.
The presidential campaign was in full swing. Joe Biden was well on his way to locking up enough delegates in the primaries for the Democratic nomination. The nomination was no longer in doubt. We were deep into the Trump versus Biden presidential campaign.
And Dr. Birx went out to the White House lawn for an interview with the Christian Broadcasting Network, and she basically campaigned for Donald Trump`s re-election.

 He`s been so attentive to the scientific literature and the details and the data. And I think his -- his ability to analyze and integrate data that comes out of his long history in business has really been a real benefit during these discussions about medical issues.
Because in the , data is data. And he understands the importance of the granularity.

 And in that moment, there was no difference between Dr. Birx and Kellyanne Conway. That was a loathsome lie. And now, we know, by Dr. Birx` own admission, it was a homicidal lie. It was the kind of lie that she now says led to hundreds of thousands of unnecessary deaths.
Donald Trump is a functional illiterate. Everyone knows that and Deborah Birx actually went out there, and said to us, he`s been so attentive to the scientific literature. And on the day that Dr. Birx told that lie, willfully told that lie on that day, we had suffered  deaths from coronavirus.  deaths from coronavirus.
What if Dr. Birx had decided to tell the truth, starting then? Instead, Deborah Birx was doing full-throttle lying like that for Donald Trump. And because of the Trump -- those Trump lies, enabled and supported by Dr. Birx, as of tonight we have , confirmed deaths from the coronavirus.
Today, President Joe Biden announced that  percent of adults in the United States will be eligible for COVID vaccination by mid-April. As of tonight, more than  million people in the United States are now fully vaccinated.
Here`s what the president had to say about the vaccination progress today.

 Last week, we set a goal of  million shots by day  of our administration. Double the original goal that I had set.
And to make that progress, over the last three days we`ve had a record number of shots in arms with over  million shots recorded in the week. Over  million shots in three days -- that would have been inconceivable in January.

 Joining us now, Dr. Ashish Jha, dean of the Brown University School of Public Health.
Dr. Jha, we heard the president today talking about vaccination progress. He also issued a warning to people. Be very, very careful. We`re not safe yet.
In fact, let`s listen to what CDC director said today about how she`s feeling right now, including using the words today, "imping doom".
Let`s listen to this.

 I`m going to lose the  and I`m going to reflect on the recurring feeling I have of imping doom. We have so much to look forward to. So much promise and potential of where we are. And so much reason for hope. But right now, I`m scared.

 Dr. Jha, are you scared?
 , first thanks for having me on.
You know, I have known Dr. Walensky for years, not decades. She does not use words like that lightly. We are in a pretty tough place, right? We have infections rising pretty quickly. Vaccinations are going great. But unfortunately, a lot of states are opening up. I expect spikes in cases.
I don`t think we`re going to see the kinds of horrible hospitalizations and deaths we saw in December and January largely, because we`ve vaccinated so many high-risk people. But this is definitely not a time for complacency.


 Is -- is the vaccine the solution? Is it capable of catching this rise that we`re seeing and turning it around?
 Yes not easily and not if states do what they`re doing, right? There are a lot states that are fully opening up their restaurants and bars. Getting rid of their mask mandates. That is really -- you know, we talk about a race between variants and vaccinations. The slot of those states are coming down on the side of variants, on the side of the virus. That`s not helpful.
And eventually we will win this. We will get enough people vaccinated to extinguish this. But the question is, how many unnecessary deaths are we willing to tolerate? It just feels all so ridiculous right now, given how close we are to a point where, you know, majority of Americans will be able to get vaccinated in the next month or so.
 Is there a phenomenon going on here in public health that perhaps we have seen before? I don`t know, where because we are putting out all this news about how so many people are getting vaccinated, other people who are not vaccinated might feel safer because of that and might feel like, well, I can get on a plane because everyone on the plane`s going to be vaccinated even if -- if I`m not.
 Yes, absolutely. There is a -- there`s a tightrope here because on one hand these vaccines are terrific. So we don`t want to understate them or suggest that they`re not a big deal. They are a big deal.
But right now,  percent of Americans have been fully vaccinated, as you said. Another way to say that is  percent of Americans have not. A vast majority have not gotten the vaccine. And they will, over the next month, six weeks. But we`ve got to hold on, until then. We can`t do what we`re doing right now.
 Dr. Ashish Jha, thank you very much for joining us again tonight. We always learn something when you join us. Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 And coming up Ezra Klein will join us on the new, Democratic strategy that Joe Biden seems to have hatched with Chuck Schumer about how to get the Biden legislative aga through the United States Senate and around that -vote threshold.
Ezra Klein joins us next.

 During most of Joe Biden`s -year career in the Senate, senators were virtually unanimous, in both parties, in their support for senate rules including the -vote threshold for forcing an  to debate and the budget reconciliation rules that allowed budget bills to ignore that -vote threshold.
And so, during the Democratic presidential primaries, Joe Biden was slow to join the chorus saying something had to be done about the Senate`s -vote procedural threshold if the next Democratic president was going to get anything done. But now Joe Biden is on the verge of becoming the most creative manipulator of senate rules in the history of the presidency.
With Joe Biden`s apparent blessing, Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, is studying the possibility of doing an unprecedented second budget reconciliation bill this year in order to pass something that has never been included in a reconciliation package before, infrastructure sping.
The loose outlines of the Biden infrastructure plan, as we currently know it, would be the biggest infrastructure sping bill ever passed by the congress. And it just might make congressional history to be the first one passed in a reconciliation bill with only  votes in the United States senate.
Today, White House press secretary Jen Psaki gave the standard-presidential answer whenever asked about senate procedure.

 The White House and the president will leave the mechanics of bill passing to Leader Schumer and other leaders in Congress. Our focus is on proposing an aga, ambitious aga, to invest in infrastructure, to help caregivers across the country, to ensure that we are doing more to help Americans get through this challenging period of time.

 Joining us now, Ezra Klein, opinion columnist for "The New York Times" and host of the podcast "The Ezra Klein Show".
Ezra, it looks like, as we have known all year, something is up with the Senate rules. And the idea of just doing this infrastructure package through reconciliation is, in and of itself, revolutionary in terms of the way the senate does this kind of business.
 Maybe. Can you ever bring me on for something easy to explain?
So what is happening in the Senate --
 Take your time. Take the rest of the show.
 I think I`ll need it. Majority Leader Schumer -- budget reconciliation bills can be done once every fiscal year. So, Majority Leader Schumer has been looking into the rules, or his staff has probably more to the point. And they found a provision, that basically says those bills can be amed.
And I`m kind of paraphrasing things here. But what they are saying is that the amment of that bill can be understood as a separate budget reconciliation bill, which would be a second budget reconciliation bill each year.
So then, they have to convince the senate parliamentarian this is true. And the reason I bring all this up is that these rules - all of them, all of them. The filibuster, budget reconciliation, anything, can be changed with  votes.
So what is happening right now is that Schumer is going to try to convince the senate parliamentarian of the somewhat-weird interpretation of an already-weird rule because Schumer`s own members will not just say the filibuster is a paralysis and a problem in the Senate and just get rid of it or rewrite the rules in a sensible way.
Instead, we are doing this unbelievable Talmudic approach to senate rulemaking and infrastructure design. It -- it`s -- I`m glad he is trying to do it and being creative. But it`s wild that we have to have this conversation, at all.
 Yes. And it seems to be part of the Schumer campaign to get to  votes because I`m now thinking of it as a campaign, Ezra, because the way I have listened to Chuck Schumer carefully about the way he says this. You know, one night he said to me here, failure`s not an option, when I asked him about, you know, what about the -vote threshold? He just kept saying failure Is not an option.
A couple nights later, he said exactly the same thing to Rachel. And so, if he means that, then he means he has a way and a plan of getting to  votes in the senate, dispensing with the -vote threshold. And that might mean going through various exercises, like a double-reconciliation bill. Torturous things that, eventually, soften Joe Manchin, to the point where he says, ok. I -- I see what you need to do.
 Yes. That last bit is the key, though. So, maybe, he has a plan that can get Joe Manchin there and Kyrsten Sinema there and maybe he doesn`t. We are just going to have to see.
The -- the key thing here, as you say, there`s been an extraordinary amount of movement, on the part of Senate Democrats around the filibuster. And around senate rule -- senate rulemaking and law making, in general. And that is all built on the idea they do not believe they can get Republican votes for anything, and that is true, by the way.
If you want to know who ultimately killed the filibuster, it is  percent Mitch McConnell because he disabused every single Democrat of the belief that you can pass anything with . You can pass anything in a truly bipartisan way.
But Senator Manchin and Senator Sinema, who understand this on some level. They are trying to walk a tightrope between saying they want to keep the senate as it is. Saying they want to make sure there is a voice and space for the minority party. And also, saying they want to get things done.
So, what they`ve basically decided to do is, if you can justify doing something under the existing rules even if it is a new interpretation of those rules, they will sign on. So that makes the senate parliamentarian very, very important.
But I do want to keep banging this drum. It would be much better if Manchin, if Sinema, if whoever the other hold-out Democrats are, just dispensed with this because then we could pass -- I`m sorry -- infrastructure bills in the way they have passed for almost the entire history of the senate until the past decade or two which is with -or-more votes.
It just simply is not the way that we`ve run this country traditionally that you need a supermajority to build a bridge and that is part of the reason that our infrastructure, in recent years, say nothing of things that are more difficult to pass in reconciliation. Like care work, like, you know, structures of pre-k and other things have fallen into such disrepair, recently.
I really wish Senator Schumer, Majority Leader Schumer, all the success in the world with this. But I really, really wish Senators Manchin and Sinema would do their duty, and make the senate functional, again.
 Well, I mean, Chuck Schumer does stay in very close contact with Joe Manchin on this with his leadership group that he has. He -- he puts in a room, every week, this amazing meeting. It`s the one meeting in Washington I`d love to be in where Bernie Sanders is at the table, Elizabeth Warren`s at the table, Joe Manchin`s at the table.
There is about ten of them as Chuck Schumer has described it. And it`s every week, and this has to be, basically, the subject every week.
 Yes. Absolutely. And it`s worth really emphasizing what you were saying. What Schumer is doing is holding together a -- a caucus that ranges from a Bernie Sanders on the one side, a Democratic socialist from Vermont -- all the way to Senator Joe Manchin, who is one of the Trumpiest states in the country -- who represents one of the Trumpiest states in the country. And so far, he`s done it.
And not just done it but Manchin to his credit and Sinema and others, have voted for the American Rescue Plan. And Manchin does want infrastructure. That is somewhere where he agrees with the broad sweep of the Democrats.
So far, Schumer`s done a pretty remarkable job. I don`t think he is floating this for no reason. I think there is a real chance, if they can persuade Manchin and others -- I`m sorry, if they can persuade the senate parliamentarian, that Manchin and others will sign on.
But again, at some point, we are going to have to fix this because one of the things I do worry about this and we saw this, by the way in the American Rescue Plan. Even if the parliamentarian goes along with it in its broad strokes, a lot of things that are in an infrastructure bill, particularly care work as press secretary Psaki was talking about will be ruled out of reconciliation.
I just did an interview on my podcast with Bernie Sanders talking about some of these other issues, also democracy promotion issues like H.R., the For The People Act, and the John Lewis voting rights act. He was saying, you know, well, we think we have some way of doing it.
But we saw this with the minimum wage. If it gets ruled out of reconciliation, they don`t. And so really it really is important that we don`t -- we can`t ultimately do the things in politics that`s going to botch a reconciliation.
We also need to be able to strengthen our democracy, maybe it possible to care for elders, et cetera, et cetera. And that is a choice senators are making every single day.
 Ezra Klein, it`s always fun to watch how much you hate talking about complicated things. Thank you very much for joining us. We`ll look for a simpler subject next time, Ezra. Thank you very much.
 Thank you. I appreciate it.
 And coming up, in tonight`s episode of "Defant Trump", Fulton County district attorney Fani Willis in Georgia says subpoenas will be coming in the criminal investigation of Donald Trump`s election interference. In her words, the way she put it, in the very near future. That`s next.

 In an interview with "The Daily Beast", the Fulton County district attorney in Atlanta, Georgia said "Donald Trump could be receiving subpoenas from a grand jury very soon." Fani Willis said this about the grand jury issuing subpoenas in the investigation of Donald Trump`s interference with the election, quote, "I suspect that`s in the very near future."
The "Daily Beast" reports that Fani Willis has assembled a special team of prosecutors and investigators to study possible election law violations by Donald Trump and Rudy Giuliani and others on the Trump team.
Donald Trump is also under criminal investigation by the Manhattan district attorney in New York City, but the Georgia case -- in the Georgia case, the public has already heard what might be the most damning evidence that the grand jury considers, and that is Donald Trump`s phone call to the Georgia secretary of state Brad Raffensperger on January nd, in which Donald Trump asked him to find , votes while Secretary Raffensperger was recording the hourlong phone call.
Joining us now Michael J. Moore, former U.S. attorney for the Middle District of Georgia. Mr. Moore, thank you for joining us again tonight. When you hear Fani Willis saying in an interview subpoenas very soon, it sounds like we`re going to see some real movement.
 Yes. I mean that`s about like  clear their throat before the national anthem, you know. But what`s interesting is that the D.A. under Georgia law controls the grand jury.
And so by and large, she knows the timing, she knows when she`ll move forward and ask that the subpoena is being issued and so I think she`s just laying out her game plan. I`m interested -- there`s two grand juries meeting. My guess is one will be about Trump and some documents, and the other might be about other players that she`s intimated at least that she`s looking into.
 And one of the things that is a violation of law in Georgia is lying to Georgia officials about an election. Let`s listen to what Gabriel Sterling who works in the secretary of state`s office said about exactly that.

 From my point of view, they intentionally misled the state senators, the people of Georgia, and the people of the United States about this. To cause this conspiracy theory to keep going, and keep a disinformation going which has caused this environment that we`re seeing today.
 Are you saying they lied to the Georgia State Senate?
 Yes.
I`m saying that Rudy Giuliani looked him in the eye and lied.

 And a lot of this is on video.
 It is. I`ll tell you that if we`re going to start locking people up who lie to legislative committees, we`re going to have to build more jails, at least in Georgia.
The senate passed about a year a provision that said you couldn`t lie when you testify before the Senate or to a committee. They`re a little bit circumspect on whether or not that would apply to the legislator but the penalty for that was not a crime. We`ve been hearing about the possibility of a felony being charged for lying to the senate committee.
But the penalty that they put forward at least under their own rules was for a ban on your ability to come back and testify for a period of time. I think it`s about a year.
So the question in the main will be whether or not they can actually move forward because of somebody lying. Again you`re going to have people -- lobbyists, you`re going to have legislators who testify in certain committees. You`re going to have, you know, interested people. The public can come in and testify.
And I think there`s going to be some hesitancy to make that a felony just because somebody lies. His lies were egregious. They did nothing but stir up problems. they`ve continued to sort of spur on this election conspiracy business nonsense. We`ve heard its results again bad log being passed in Georgia and other places.
But I don`t know if we get to a felony. My hope is, we talked about this before, my hope is that the D.A. will look at this and sort of make a rifle shot on a readily provable offense, and not try to go too broad. I think when you do that, you give the naysayers and sort of the Trump supporters too much oxygen to talk about this being a political persecution, and not a legitimate prosecution.
And I think that`s a danger. I think what you want to do is you want to say, what can I prove beyond a reasonable doubt? What is readily provable by the evidence that I have and you mentioned about this taped confession which is really a key piece, and the key piece of evidence in the case. And move it forward on something like that.
 Michael J. Moore, thank you very much for joining us again tonight. Always appreciate it.
 Great to be with you. Thank you for having me.
 That is tonight`s .
" starts now.


 Good evening, Chris. Thank you, my fri. Much appreciated.
And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour. A lot to get to this hour. This is going to be a busy show and a big one.
In the Obama administration, the issue of gun violence, specifically the idea of gun violence being treated as a public health issue, that almost derailed President Obama`s nomination for surgeon general, a doctor named Vivek Murthy. Republicans held up Vivek Murthy`s nomination for basically a year in order to try to make some sort of scapegoat out of him for the NRA.
Despite that year delay, Vivek Murthy was ultimately confirmed and he served as surgeon general under President Obama. He served as surgeon general in fact until President Trump fired Dr. Murthy from that job in .
Well, President Biden has just brought Vivek Murthy back to be surgeon general again. He was confirmed by the Senate last night. He should be sworn in soon.
Tonight, the Senate also confirmed the official who will be Vivek Murthy`s boss at the Department of Health and Human Services, Dr.Levine was confirmed tonight to be assistant secretary of health. That is a history- making appointment. Dr. Levine is now the first transger official to ever be confirmed by the U.S. Senate, the highest ranking transger U.S. government official in history. She will be the number two official at HHS.
All Republicans except two voted against her nomination, only Susan Collins and Lisa Murkowski voted for her. So she`ll be Vivek Murthy`s boss.
Dr. Levine`s boss at HHS will, of course, be the new secretary of Health and Human Services, Xavier Becerra. He was also recently confirmed. He will be sworn in soon. No Republican senators voted for him at all, but Democrats were nevertheless able to confirm him on a party-line vote.
In order to become health secretary, Mr. Becerra had to leave his previous job which was attorney general of the state of California and there had been a bunch of discussion that Congressman Adam Schiff of California, frequent guest on the show, he had such a high profile role particularly in the first impeachment of President Trump, there`d been lots of discussion that Congressman Adam Schiff might replace Xavier Becerra. He might get appointed to be California attorney general once Becerra got confirmed for his cabinet position in Washington.
Well, today, we learned that Congressman Adam Schiff will not be going home to California to take that job. He will stay in D.C as a congressman and an important one as chair of the Intelligence Committee.
Instead of him, California`s governor picked for the new attorney general job in California, a man named Rob Bonta. He is a state representative in California. He will now become the first ever Filipino American to have that very powerful gig attorney general of the most populous state in the country.
At the Justice Department in Washington, though, there`s trouble. We`ve been reporting for weeks now, for months now, on how the Trump presidency and the tenure of Attorney General Bill Barr really ripped the U.S. Justice Department apart at the seams in some important ways.
President Biden`s new attorney general, Merrick Garland, he has been confirmed. He is in position now, but he`s not just got the hard work to do of running federal law enforcement as attorney general. He`s now got to figure out what to do with all of the Trump and Bill Barr era scandals that are still straggling around the halls of Main Justice. You know, dragging their entrails down the hall. I mean, where do you start?
At least four different Trump cabinet secretaries we now know, at least four of them were referred to the Justice Department for potential criminal prosecution for various kinds of corruption four cabinet officials, and all of those criminal referrals were dismissed out of hand instantly. Criminal cases of course against the president`s fris or against people who could conceivably testify against President Trump in their criminal trials, those cases suddenly dropped by the Justice Department or interfered with at sentencing by the Justice Department even after guilty pleas were entered, even after convictions were handed down by juries.
The president`s personal lawyer not the one who went to prison, the other one, the president`s personal lawyer of late implicated in both of the scandals for which the president was impeached. Mr. Giuliani, the subject of an active federal criminal investigation but the U.S. attorney`s office investigating him was blocked from getting search warrants for Mr. Giuliani in conjunction with that case, thanks to direct interference from Trump appointees at the highest levels of the DOJ, reaching down and stopping search warrants being issued in the criminal investigation of Rudy Giuliani.
I mean, that`s not okay. It`s not just a mess there to clean up like it isn`t a bunch of cabinet level agencies after the Trump administration. At the Justice Department in particular, it`s not just a mess left over. It is an ongoing mess. It`s not just past scandals that need atting to it`s current cases that have been tampered with along the way during the Trump era.
It`s interference in law enforcement that still needs to be ferreted out, fixed and potentially prosecuted as corruption in its own right. It is a huge complex really bad problem that the Biden administration has had foisted on it, and I don`t think it`s getting nearly enough attention frankly. And this is like, you know, you loaned somebody your car for a week they did give it back at the  of the week, but now, you know, while you need your car to get to school and get to work and do your errands and stuff, it turns out the guy you lent it to spent the time that he had it pouring sugar in the gas tank and stripping off all the wiring and inviting an exted family of raccoons and squirrels to live permanently in the back seat and make nests.
Hey, Merrick, here`s your car back. Thanks for the loan. Hope it`s still cool that that`s going to be your daily driver and your commuter car. Watch out the squirrel`s fight.
I mean, we have to use the Justice Department for stuff.
So, yeah, this is about what the last administration did but it is a current problem and for all the help that Attorney General Merrick Garland is going to need handling that disaster and digging out from it, I mean, just this week, the Bill Barr appointee who inexplicably got put in charge of the U.S. Attorney`s Office in D.C., just this week he appears to have actively screwed up potentially all the most serious prosecutions of alleged January th U.S. Capitol attackers. He did that this wee, even now the Trump folks that left over at the Justice Department are still messing stuff up, really serious stuff that`s at the top of the priorities list for Garland.
So, for all of the help that Merrick Garland is going to need in cleaning this up and riding the ship at the Justice Department, so far -- this is important -- he has none of his senior staff in place to help him get a hold of things there. None of them, he`s been confirmed, yes, but nobody else. Republicans have blocked all the other appointees at senior posts at the Justice Department so far, including one that`s coming to a head tomorrow morning.
 a.m. in the Senate and I will tell you why.
Here`s the thing to know. This is Swisher County, Texas. It`s up in the Texas Panhandle. Amarillo is an hour due north, Lubbock is an hour due south, from the county seat in little Swisher County which is called Tulia. Tulia, Texas, does that name ring a bell for you?
Even if you have no connection to Texas at all, and you don`t know the name of every little town of , people in Texas, the name Tulia, Texas, might ring a bell for you if for example you ever watch " Minutes" on CBS, since Tulia, Texas, was the subject of one of the most astonishing interviews the great Ed Bradley ever put on TV as part of that in show.

 Early one morning in , Tom Coleman`s efforts culminated in  percent of Tulia`s adult black population. They were roused out of bed, paraded in front of local television cameras in handcuffs. Many of them half dressed, and charged with selling cocaine to Tom Coleman at various times over the course of his investigation.
The town`s newspaper declared Tulia`s streets cleared of garbage. It may be no coincidence that the road led Tom Coleman to the town`s black community. It was well known that he had used racial slurs in front of his superior officers in Tulia.
 Everybody`s making a big deal, oh, God, he said a word like  was bad in the `s, `s, and `s and `s, and `s and `s.
But now, it`s just common slang. I mean, people -- You know, you can watch TV, and hear that word, you know? It`s a greeting.
 Coleman told me he used the N-word toe fit in with blacks during his investigation and admits he also used it among his white fris.
 The word .
 Is that a greeting you would use with me?
 Oh, no, sir, not you.
 But it`s OK to use it around other people?
 Yes, sir.

 Oh, no, not you, sir. You I would never look in the face and call the n word but I otherwise use it all the time.
One of the most amazing things I`ve ever seen in a " Minutes" interview and for " Minutes", that`s saying something.
But the overall story was just insane. This is sort of a small town right about people as they say in the Texas panhandle. One morning, they mass arrest more than a tenth of the entire black population of the town and all of them,  more than people arrested, they`re all accused of being big time like cartel level drug dealers and drug kingpins.
Here`s how "New York Times" columnist Bob Herbert described it at the time in a column that he called Kafka in Tulia. He said, quote, Kafka could have had a field day with Tulia. On the morning of July , law enforcement officers fanned out and arrested more than  percent of Tulia`s tiny African-American population. Also arrested were a handful of whites who had relationships with blacks.
The humiliating roundup was intensely covered by the local media which had been tipped off in advance. Men and women bewildered and unkempt were paraded before TV cameras and featured prominently on the evening news. They were drug traffickers, one and all, said the sheriff. Among the  so- called traffickers were a pig farmer, a forklift operator, and a number of ordinary young women with children.
If these were major cocaine dealers, as alleged, they were among the oddest in the U.S. None of them had any money to speak of and when they were arrested, they didn`t have any cocaine, no drugs, no money, no weapons were recovered during the surprise roundup.
The first convictions nevertheless came quickly. One of the few white defants, a man who happened to have a mixed-race child, was sentenced to more than  years in prison.
The hog farmer, a black man in his late s, was sentenced to  years in prison.
A -year-old black man was sentenced to  years in prison, and so on.
The entire operation was the work of a single police officer who claimed to have conducted an -month undercover operation. The arrests were made solely on the word of this one officer, Tom Coleman.
Mr. Coleman`s alleged undercover operation was ridiculous. There were no other police officers to corroborate his activities. He did not wear a wire or conduct any video surveillance. He did not keep detailed records of his alleged drug buys.
He said he sometimes wrote such important information as the names of suspects and the dates of transactions on his leg. In trial after trial, prosecutors put Coleman on the witness stand and his uncorroborated unsubstantiated testimony was enough to s people to prison for decades - - uncorroborated, unsubstantiated.
What was all the more amazing about this was that the cop in question who was the single-handed law enforcement source and the source of all evidence in this entire roundup of more than  people, the cop in question cheerfully admitted that he had absolutely no evidence, absolutely no corroboration, absolutely no way to substantiate anything that he was saying against any of these people whatsoever. All of it, all of it was just what he said, which he was happy to admit because clearly that was enough.

 They were all given harsh sentences ranging from  to  years in prison, even though the arrests had turned up no cocaine, no drug paraphernalia, no weapons, no money or any other signs of drug dealing. The convictions were based solely on the uncorroborated word of Tom Coleman, who had followed none of the standard procedures routinely used in undercover drug operations across the country.
Just for the record, did you wear a wire or other recording device?
 No, sir.
 Did you have any video or photographic evidence that the buys took place?
 No, sir.
 Did you have any indepent eyewitness testimony from another undercover officer?
 No, sir.
 Did you have any fingerprint evidence?
 No, sir.
 But don`t you want something more than your word?
 Uh-huh.
 Another little piece of evidence that can point the finger at that person?
 Yes, sir, that would have helped, but that`s not how the operation went.

 Sentences of up to  years in prison, dozens of people arrested, convicted, sentenced to very hard time.
The cumulative number of years that these folks got in prison was over  years in prison. They`re all arrested that one day, all based on that one officer with no supporting evidence whatsoever. Texas state officials at the time were beside themselves. by which I mean they were delighted.
More than  percent of all the black people in that town arrested and put in prison, a third of all the black men in that town. Give that officer a reward. They actually did give him an award.
The Texas state attorney general at the time gave that officer the Lawman of the Year Award. The state attorney general of Texas did that.
And then it all fell apart, it all fell apart astonishingly.

 More than a dozen people convicted on drug charges are expected to be freed from Texas prisons today, this after the officer whose testimony sent them to prison was charged with perjury.
NBC`s Jim Cummins is in Tulia, Texas, with more on this story.
Hey, Jim, good morning.
 Good morning, Ann.
That`s right. It was a huge drug case for such a small town involving minorities but now apparently.
In July, , the authorities in Tulia, Texas, population ,, made a drug bust, arresting  people,  of them black, as part of a sting operation conducted by one undercover cop. Tom Coleman posing as a long- haired biker with a drug habit claimed he bought cocaine from the suspects. Some plea bargained for short prison sentences. The others went to trial.
And on the strength of Coleman`s testimony only,  of them were sentenced to a total of about  years in prison.
But on judicial review, Coleman`s cases began to fall apart.
 Every transcript from every trial that ever took place around this thing has evidence of Tom Coleman perjuring himself on the stand.
 One woman, Tonya White, could prove that she was  miles away in Oklahoma City cashing a check, the same day Coleman claimed she sold cocaine to him in Tulia. There is outrage over this drug bust. The Texas legislature passed a bill, calling for the release of all the suspects until the appeals of the case are heard.
So later today, the same courthouse where they were convicted, the remaining  people will be released by a judge.

 That was June . That was a morning report that aired on NBC in "The Today Show" that morning. And then later that day, that judge it did free everybody because it turns out when pressed when somebody actually tried to def these people against these charges, when you started to investigate whether or not what this one cop had said was true, it turns out the cases against all of them were entirely made up.

 Basically I`m a trial judge.
 So two months ago, District Judge Ron Chapman ruled that all Tulia suspects had been improperly convicted.
Today,  of those, still doing time, were brought back in chains to the same courthouse where they had been tried.
 Let these people go. Let them go today.
 And Judge Chapman did release them on their own recognizance until the cases are decided on appeal.
Meanwhile, Coleman has been indicted for aggravated perjury in another case.
It was jubilation for them and their loved ones.
Joe Moore was the first to be convicted. He got  years. He was asked what he had lost from this experience.
 I just about my life.
 Tonight, most of the Tulia drug suspects now have a chance to resume their lives.
 Great day. Great day.
 Good afternoon.
 Good afternoon.
 My name is Vanita Gupta. I`m an attorney with the NAACP Legal Defense Fund.
Following a dramatic hearing at the Swisher County courthouse today, retired District Judge Ron Chapman granted bail and ordered the immediate release of  individuals who were wrongfully convicted of drug charges in Tulia, Texas, and have been imprisoned for years since their arrest. Judge Chapman found Tom Coleman to be, quote, the most devious, non-responsive law enforcement witness this court has witnessed in  years on the bench in Texas.
According to the court`s findings, Coleman submitted false reports, misrepresented his investigative work and misidentified various defants during his investigation. In addition testimony by Coleman and other law enforcement officials involved in the Tulia drug sting revealed Coleman`s arrest on theft charges and abusive official abuse of official capacity while conducting the Tulia investigation.

 Did you catch that last bit? The cop in question here, the cop who made up all the information that resulted in the arrest of all these people and them all getting these , , -year sentences, the cop himself got arrested during the course of this investigation for theft and abuse of office.
The Kafka-esque uping of this town was the work of this one crooked police officer who himself had been charged with theft and abuse, who would go on in fact to be convicted of perjury.
That young civil rights attorney who went to Tulia, Texas, in the wake of all these convictions, who went through all of the cases and realized that they were all built on nothing, who personally lined up lawyers from all around the country for more than  defants who didn`t have any defense counsel, whose appeals had already been rejected, who acted as lead counsel herself for the NAACP in all those defants cases as they pried this thing open, who got the crooked cop to break down and meltdown on the stand in March , which did break open the case and all the convictions were overturned, and all the prisoners were freed. And in August , Texas Republican Governor Rick Perry issued a full and complete pardon for all of those poor people.
That young civil rights attorney who exposed what happened there who made that happen, her name is Vanita Gupta.

 I basically spent two full days in the Swisher County courthouse going through files, trying to piece together the stories of these cases and then found out who their family members were in the town and just drove to their homes and spent a fair amount of time really, really just kind of getting to know them.
 She wasn`t just a little lady with a little voice, she was a little lady with a lot of power and a lot of knowledge and a lot of caring.
 We will not rest in our quest to write the horrific wrongs that have been inflicted on our clients and on this community.
I came back to New York, I made a chart of the  individuals and kind of compiled all that information. We needed to put law enforcement on trial.
I also realized that I was one attorney with  potential clients, so I mobilize the law firms in New York City and Washington, D.C.

 It`s footage from one of several documentaries that has been made about this landmark miscarriage of justice, and what it took to expose it, and  it.
That lawyer, Vanita Gupta, went on to become the head of the Civil Rights Division at the U.S. Justice Department under President Obama. Widely respected in that role, she served in that very high profile job without any whiff of scandal or trouble.
President Biden has since nominated her to be the number three official in the whole Justice Department, assistant attorney general. In that nomination, she has among other things the support of every major law enforcement organization in the country, including the Fraternal Order of Police, which is the police union organization that twice orsed Donald Trump, even they support Vanita Gupta.
Vanita Gupta is one of the senior Justice Department officials who is not confirmed in this administration because Republicans are not only blocking her nomination, they are slow walking it through the Senate. They`re trying to trip it up, trying to keep her from being confirmed.
And here`s the thing, here`s why this is all worth knowing, ready? Who do you think is the Republican senator who is leading the charge against Vanita Gupta and has stopped her from being confirmed thus far? So Merrick Garland doesn`t have any of his top people there with him at the Justice Department.
Vanita Gupta is going to be the number three official the Justice Department. She`s not there yet. Why is that? Well, there`s a Republican senator taking point on this, leading the charge to try to keep her from being confirmed. Who is that? The senator from Texas, a senator from Texas who used to be attorney general of the state of Texas.
It`s Texas Senator John Cornyn, who when he was attorney general of the state of Texas, is the guy who gave officer Tom Coleman the Texas Lawman of the Year Award for his great work in Tulia, Texas -- before Vanita Gupta came in and exposed who that guy actually was before he was convicted of perjury, before every single one of those cases was overturned because that guy made them all up. And they all got full pardons from Rick Perry because of the Kafka-esque nightmare and disaster that was that guy who John Cornyn named Lawman of the Year.
I wonder -- I just wonder if Senator John Cornyn might be at all embarrassed about this and about the young lawyer who came to Texas and exposed this thing, this terrible and cartoonishly evil thing that he had helped along, that he had celebrated, that he had given an award to. It is now Senator John Cornyn leading the charge against Vanita Gupta, to be the number three official at the U.S. Justice Department, even against all of those law enforcement organizations orsing her.
Judiciary Committee is due to vote on her nomination tomorrow. Republicans led by John Cornyn have been demanding that Vanita Gupta actually needs to come back and do her confirmation hearings over a second time. That is not going to happen. Tonight, we have obtained exclusively I think the reply letter from Democratic Judiciary Committee chairman, Senator Dick Durbin. The reply to Senator Republican senators demanding that she needs to do her confirmation all over again. Senator Durbin telling Republicans, no, they are not going to stop Vanita Gupta`s nomination any longer.
 Dear senators, well, I always appreciate hearing from colleagues on the committee, your request to hold a second hearing on Vanita Gupta`s nomination to the associate attorney general appears to be little more than a delay tactic, aimed not at gathering more information but at obstructing a highly qualified and historic nominee who`s dedicated her career to the protection and expansion of civil rights. The committee will not hold a second hearing from Ms. Gupta, and her nomination will move forward with a committee vote.
A second hearing on Gupta`s nomination is unwarranted and unnecessary. The committee will vote on her nomination tomorrow. Sincerely, Dick Durbin, committee chairman.
Vanita Gupta is going to be confirmed by the Senate ultimately. She will be the number three official at the U.S. Justice Department under Merrick Garland, and that is despite unified Republican opposition to her led by the senator who she humiliated and exposed in Texas, nearly years  ago for his enabling encouraging, celebrating role in one of the worst most racially explosive, astonishingly brazen law enforcement put up jobs in the last generation.
Senator Cornyn, I do not know if he`s ashamed by his role in all that. I wonder if he ever tried to get the award back. But his effort to get revenge on the woman who had to come in and fix his mess, that effort will fail. She will win and he will lose again. God bless, Texas.
 a.m., and the Judiciary Committee. I for one will be watching.

 Today in the Senate, we saw some we basically never see. This was the top Democrat in the Senate, Chuck Schumer, and the top Republican in the Senate, Mitch McConnell, squaring off opposite each other at a hearing.
I don`t know if you watch a lot of footage of the U.S. Senate, you might not be quite as big a civics nerd as I am, but this is you should know this is something that doesn`t happen. If you`re the leader of one of the parties in the Senate, you don`t sit on any committees. And so you never see them at hearings, you never see either of them sitting up at the dais at a committee hearing like this, let alone both of them at the same time at the same one.
But that is how important this hearing was today that the leaders of both parties in the Senate came in person, in part so they could yell at each other.
This was the first hearing on S-, Senate bill , the For the People Act, which is the Democrats` big voting rights protection bill.
Former Attorney General Eric Holder and a bunch of other witnesses gave testimony on the bill to the Senate Rules Committee chaired by Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar today. As I said, the leaders of both parties were there in person.
This voting rights legislation is probably the one thing that could stop the hundreds of state-level voting rights rollbacks that are currently in the works in Republican-controlled states. It has already passed the House, but how can it pass the Senate?
Senator Schumer keeps saying failure is not an option on this bill in particular. Today, he said this bill will pass this body, meaning it will pass the Senate. Why does he keep saying that though? I mean, is he cheerleading for that to happen or is there some plan to make that happen?
Republicans are  percent, , percent opposed to this? How is it going to pass?
Joining us now is Senator Amy Klobuchar of the great state of Minnesota. She`s chair of the Rules Committee and she ran this landmark hearing today.
Senator, it`s great to see you. Thanks so much for your time.
 Thank you, Rachel. And by the way, thank you for covering Vanita`s hearing tomorrow. I`m going to be there, and she`ll just be fantastic in his job, perfect for this moment in time with major prosecutions going on of hate crimes, and thank you for really showing her strength as a candidate and how great she`ll be in the Justice Department. Thank you.
 Well, thank you for saying so. I mean, I`m struck by both her the backstory about her, what she`s done and how she ed up as a relatively young person in these high-level positions in the Justice Department because of her incredible track record starting at a really young age. But the bad blood behind what appears to be some of the Republican-led opposition to her it just strikes me as something that ought to be national news. If you if you gave the Tulia, Texas, detective, an award,. maybe you should step aside when Vanita Gupta sits down in your committee hearing. But I guess we`ll see that tomorrow.
 Speaking of it, with our hearing, this is a moment though this bill, when you look at some of the things we`ve been dealing with on the floor tonight led byMurphy, dealing with background check bill that ,  percent of the American people want, all of the things that are just stuck a lot of it has to do with Republicans attempt at gridlock. I personally favor getting rid of the filibuster.
But what you saw in our hearing today with the strength of this bill, you didn`t just see Eric Holder testifying for it. Trevor Potter, remember that name? The former head of the Federal Election Commission, Republican head, chief counsel to John McCain in both his presidential races, testified for the bill because he believes we just need to have pick up our democracy again.
As I said on the inaugural stage, brush it off, move forward as a country, hundreds of bills trying to suppress the vote. Yet, we had  million people vote in November in the middle of a pandemic. Why? Because a number of states had exted vote by mail, they made it easier to register, they made it easier to early vote. Why would we close the door on that now?
This is a moment you only get maybe every  years for civil rights for elections, and that is why Senator Schumer made this s and why we are so devoted to passing this bill.
 I feel like the devotion to passing this bill is something that I am seeing in real time and here, and I believe in the sincerity of it. What I don`t understand is the plan to get it passed? If the filibuster`s still in place, then the only way to pass things without Republican support is to go through budget reconciliation. This isn`t broadly speaking the kind of thing that can pass through budget reconciliation.
What is the -- what is the plan to hope that public support eventually drives Republicans to change their minds?
 Let`s start with this. It`s passed the House, that`s always a good thing. Number two, first time we`ve ever had a hearing on this bill and we`re going to have a markup to get it to the floor which we can do in a - Senate um after in April, the month of April on my committee.
Then we go forward and this bill is led by Senator Merkley. He`s doing a great job. We go to the floor, and there, of course, we -- there`s nine bipartisan provisions in there. We do try to build support, but barring that we already have Senator Manchin talking about the fact that with some version of this bill or any bill he`s willing to move to a talking filibuster. You know what that means? That means we actually make the other side speak, we make them stand and speak, and they have to come in day after day and night after night like in Mr. Smith goes to Washington and own their objections to common sense reforms supported broadly by Democrats and Republicans out there.
To me, it`s a little like the American Rescue Plan. They were objecting to that, but the people wanted it and we got it done with  votes.
So we start with getting it to the floor and from there, jump ball, a lot of things can happen.
 Sign me up for a front row seat.
Senator Amy Klobuchar, chair of the Rules Committee, that`s more than just determination. That sounds like a plan. Thanks for helping us understand it tonight. We`ll have you back to talk about it more as it goes through the process.
 All right. Thank you.
 All right. Much more ahead here tonight. Stay with us.

 She was the only person who showed up for geography that day. September , , Valerie Banks and her backpack were the only ones in class. A court had just ordered city of Boston to desegregate its public schools. The court said Boston had to begin busing white kids to black schools and black kids to white schools an effort to force the schools to integrate.
Lots of families from white neighborhoods in Boston balked at the idea of sing their kids to school in traditionally black neighborhoods. They balked especially at having black kids come to what had been all white schools.
And so, that`s how young Valerie Banks ed up in the geography classroom all by herself, the first day of school under that court-ordered busing program. White parents just flat out refused to s their kids to school if there were going to be black kids there too.
Within a year and a half of busing starting in Boston, a third of white kids got taken out of Boston public schools and it is painful to see that young girl sitting all by herself in that classroom.
But it only got more traumatic for kids like Valerie from there. Black students on their way to school were the target of big racist mobs in Boston, often really violent protests by white people in Boston. They threw rocks at the kids while they got on the bus. Black kids had to duck shattering glass coming at them through the bus windows as the buses were attacked.
Here`s a woman screaming at a bus full of black children who were being taken home after school. The photographer said she was yelling to those little kids, go home and stay home, yelling at the little kids.
People walked through black neighborhoods in Boston wearing Ku Klux Klan gear. They set a mannequin of a black person on fire, an effigy. This is a building in a white neighborhood in Boston, a message for all the black kids, all the black students being bused in to see on their way to school every morning. We blurred what the word is but you know what the word is.
The trauma those kids had to ure it would have been it would be almost unbelievable if there weren`t the pictures to prove it.

 I remember riding the buses to protect the kids going up to South Boston High School and the bricks through the window, signs hanging out those buildings, go home. Pictures of monkeys, the words, the spit. People just felt it was all right to attack children.
 I had no idea what to expect busing thing. I didn`t know anything about South Boston. I didn`t know anything about, you know, they didn`t like us I didn`t know anything that was in store for us. But when we got there, it was like a war zone.
I came back and I told my mom and I never forget. I said, ma, I am not going back to that school unless I have a gun, exactly at  years old. I am not going back to that school.

 That overt racism those racist attacks in Boston over busing, it took years before any of that simmered down. But stars for those who lived through it never faded away. Boston remains an incredibly unequal place to live by just about every metric.
In , the net worth for a white family, net worth for a white family living in Boston was roughly $,. Net worth of a black family living in Boston was an average of eight dollars.
The Boston Police Department is  percent white, even though white people make up less than half the city. That`s still today.
If you look at what the city itself is investing in, where they`re doling out lucrative contracts of the more than $ billion handed out by the city between  and  in contracts, one half of one percent of those contracts went to black owned businesses.
And you see it in representation at the highest levels too the mayor of Boston has only ever been a white man, for all time. For the last  years, that white man has been either of Irish or Italian descent, full stop,  straight years of Irish-American or Italian-American men.
The city of Boston has never been represented by a black person at the highest level. The city has never been represented by a woman, until now. This is Kim Janey. Her family has lived in the Boston neighborhood of Roxbury for six generations.
When she was  years old, Kim Janey became a mom, while she was still in high school. After she graduated high school, she started a community college.
She ultimately enrolled at Smith College in Northampton, Massachusetts. She worked a job cleaning bathrooms while she was a student at Smith, so she could afford tuition and to provide for her daughter. She then spent years as an organizer and advocate pushing to reform Boston`s public schools.
, she was elected to the city council in Boston. She was chosen by her peers then to become the city council`s president. That choice was made last year.
And as city council president, well, there she was in place. That is how this week, Kim Janey became mayor of Boston. The last mayor of Boston, Marty Walsh, just resigned to become President Biden`s labor secretary. When the mayor resigns, the line of succession in Boston is that the president of the city council gets automatically elevated to be acting mayor. That makes Kim Janey as of this week, the first black person to lead the city of Boston, the first woman to lead the city of Boston.
She was also one of those Boston kids in the `s who was pelted with rocks and racial slurs on their way to school. Kim Janey was  years old when she got on those desegregation buses in Boston. She was bused to a school in the same part of Boston where they set that mannequin of a black person on fire.
Yesterday, yesterday, she went back to that school that she was bused to in . She went back this time on her first full day as the mayor of Boston Massachusetts.

 As a girl growing up in Boston, I was nurtured by a family who believed in me and surrounded by good neighbors who knew my name. It was my village. But when I was just  years old, school busing rolled into my life, I was forced onto the front lines of the s battle to desegregate Boston public schools. I had rocks and racial slurs thrown at my bus simply for atting school while black.
And just yesterday, on my first full day as mayor, I visited my childhood alma mater. I saw students happy to be back in school with their teachers and fris instead of the pain and trauma that I had experienced in middle school.
To think that my teenage grandsons were born at a time when there had never even been a black woman on our city council and today, my six-year-old granddaughter Rosie and other little girls can see themselves represented in Massachusetts` highest court, the halls of Congress, and now, in the th mayor of Boston.


 The new mayor of Boston, Massachusetts, Mayor Kim Janey joins us live here, next. Stay with us.

 Here`s how "Boston Globe" columnist Adrian Walker put it. He said, quote, How far behind is Boston? Welcome to one of the few major American cities that has never elected anything but a white male mayor.
In cities like New York, Chicago, Los Angeles, this barrier fell a generation or more ago. Even cities that don`t post particularly big black population like Seattle and Denver have elected black mayors, in some cases more than one. But here, here in Boston, the old line held.
Not anymore.
Joining us now for her first national interview since becoming mayor of the great city of Boston is Kim Janey.
Madam Mayor, thank you so much for being here and congratulations.
 Thank you so much. It`s an honor to be here. I`m a big fan. Thank you for having me.
 It`s nice of you to say.
Let me just ask you one of the -- one of the things you said in your speech when you were sworn in today was that you bring to this moment life experience that is different from the men who came before me.
Tell me -- tell me about what that means for this job, for the city of Boston. How -- how that will influence this incredibly large job you`re taking on now?
 Well, as -- as a woman growing up, as a little girl growing up in Roxbury, as a black woman who has lived through some of our darkest days in our city, I certainly bring all of that with me.
But, I also know that our city is a city of hope and possibilities. And so, I am encouraged certainly by what I saw when I visited my childhood alma mater.
As you have said, I was bused during the desegregation era here in Boston. It was a very traumatic experience growing up, a very violent time in our city. And me sitting here as mayor does symbolize how far we`ve come as a city, but we have a lot of work to do.
Yesterday, on my first full day as mayor, I had the opportunity to go back and see young people learning in the classroom. I actually visited a classroom where they were studying desegregation in Boston and to be there in that classroom as someone who lived through that experience and able to share that experience with the students was pretty incredible, and to be there as the first black mayor and the first woman mayor for our city was just mind-blowing.
You know, it was great to see students in the classroom learning and engaged and not having to worry about that painful time in our history. That being said, we do have a lot of work to do in Boston. These issues, these challenges are not new. They are centuries old in the making. There is a lot of work to do when it comes to combating structural racism in our city.
And I will bring my lived experience and my unique perspective as a black woman to this work.
 It strikes me also that from a national perspective, Boston has a pretty unique role right now in the response of the pandemic just because Boston is, A, not only a tech hub, but also a healthcare capital for the country. And Massachusetts had a hard time with COVID.
Is the vaccine roll-out in Boston, and other elements, logistical elements of the COVID response is now going to land in your lap as mayor as you take on these responsibilities?
 Yes. It is a huge priority for me, making sure that we are rolling out the vaccines equitably. So, communities that have been hardest hit, it`s no surprise that communities of color have been hit particularly hard disproportionately here in Boston and other cities across our nation. And that`s due to the preexisting inequities before COVID.
And so, it is incredibly important that we make sure we`re getting the vaccine out equitably, that we are reaching all communities and lifting up those who have been hardest hit, and that is the number one priority for me so that we can reopen safely, make sure we`re getting businesses opened and workers back to work and our students back in the classrooms with their teachers and their peers.
 Kim Janey, sworn in today as the new mayor of the great city of Boston -- again, congratulations. You have a huge task ahead of you. Godspeed. Come back frequently. And it`s good to -- it`s so good to see you on this job.
 I`d love to. Thank you so much, Rachel. Take care.
 All right. We`ll be right back. Stay with us.

 p.m. Eastern, we are expecting the first formal press conference of President Biden`s tenure in the Oval Office. It`s the first one he`s done since he`s been president. We will all be watching.
 a.m. tomorrow, the Judiciary Committee. It`s going to be a big day tomorrow in Washington.
See you again tomorrow night.


 Yes, absolutely. You said it very well, sir. Boulder Mayor Sam Weaver, thank you so much for being here. Condolences again to the community there in Boulder. That tonight`s . "" starts now.

 Tonight, on ALL IN. Georgia turns Trump`s big lie into a sweeping new voter suppression law. Tonight, the growing backlash as Democrats prepare lawsuits and why the President may have just foreshadowed a voting rights breakthrough.
Then, one year later, a study in contrast.
 I think Easter Sunday, and you`ll have packed churches all over a country.
 My predecessor, oh God I miss him.
 Tonight, the new Biden goal to stamp out the pandemic and the damning new reporting on what a year of failed leadership cost America. All that and what we learned today`s hearing on misinformation and the Capitol attack.
 I believe that the former president should be responsible for his words, and that the people who broke the law should be responsible for their actions.
 Whenstarts right now.

 Breaking News Tonight out of Georgia. Republican Governor Brian Kemp just signed into law a sweeping bill restricting voting access, passed earlier this evening by the Republican-controlled state legislature on a straight party-line vote.
And it comes, of course, after former President Trump`s false, baseless, non-stop accusations of fraud and last year`s election, particularly in Georgia, and his systematic attempts to overturn his loss in Georgia. Attempts that are being investigated by prosecutors there.
The -page bill requires photo ID to vote by mail. They used to use a signature matching which works fine. And a million Georgian voters did that last year. There were no problems. It cuts the amount of time voters have to request an absentee ballot. It reduces dropboxes used for absentee ballots. Why? Who knows? It limits when they can be accessed. It makes it a crime for groups to hand out food and water to voters waiting in line.
Also, again, why? Who knows? In a state where we`ve seen some of the longest lines to vote in the country. It shortens the timeframe for runoff elections, including the timeframe for early voting in those runoff elections. It pulls authority from the secretary of state who just coincidentally refuse to allow former President Trump to cheat in last year`s election and overturn the results. And crucially, it hands more power the legislature. It gives lawmakers the power to start takeovers of local election boards.
Voting Rights Advocates and Georgia Democrats slammed the bill. One state senator calling it a Christmas tree of goodies in terms of voter suppression, adding it`s about the opportunity to keep control and keep power at any cost. Another lawmaker calling it an unabashed assault of voting rights unlike anything we`ve seen since the Jim Crow era.
It is impossible to ignore the breathtaking cynicism at play here. Let`s remember the context. Republicans lost the presidential election in Georgia last year. They proceeded to lose both Senate runoff elections in January, all of them by relatively narrow margins. Their own Republican Secretary of State confirmed many times the election was completely free and fair.
In fact, it wasn`t just free and fair, the Georgia election was the most audited recounted election in all of America last year during the National Election. they counted the ballots three times including once by hand, OK. And this is how they`re responding, Republicans in the state, trying to make it just so less people can vote. So, just the people they want to vote can vote.
And it`s not just happening in Georgia, of course. Republicans in at least  states have introduced pre-filed or carried over at least  bills that would restrict voting access. That`s just this year according to the Brennan Center.
Earlier this month, as we reported on this program, Iowa Governor Kim Reynolds signed a new law cutting the state`s early voting period down by nine days, tightening the timeline for when absentee ballots must be received in order to be counted, stripping county auditor`s much of their discretion in running elections, including establishing satellite in-person early voting sites and mailing absentee ballot request forms to voters who didn`t specifically ask for one. Limiting who could return a voter`s absentee ballot, closing the polls and our earlier on election day.
Again, why, why, why, why, why, why? Well, just because it makes it harder to vote. And maybe that confers a marginal advantage on Republicans. That`s why.
In his first presidential press conference this afternoon, Joe Biden spoke out forcefully against these measures.

 when working people are just getting off work. Deciding that there will be no absentee ballots under the most rigid circumstances.
The Republican voters I know find this despicable. Republican voters.

 Georgia Governor Brian Kemp spoke shortly after signing the new bill claiming the restrictions are needed and would even bring more people to the polls.

 The Senate Bill , Georgia will take another step toward ensuring our elections are secure, accessible, and fair. The facts are that this new law will expand voting access in the Peach State.

 I mean, it quite literally makes it harder to vote. That`s not even a matter of dispute. I mean, maybe there`ll be enough of a backlash that more people vote but it doesn`t expand access. And while Governor Kemp was speaking, there were some sort of commotion in his office. I don`t know if you saw it live, but the video broadcast cut off.
And we now know that a Democratic lawmaker, State Representative Park Cannon was knocking on the door to his office to witness the bill signing and she was forcibly removed and arrested, dragged out. Watch.

 I`m under arrest.  Speak to me. Why am I under arrest? There is no reason for me to be arrested. I am a legislator. Do not touch me. Where are these officers taking me? I am not doing anything. I`m literally not doing anything.

 I`m joined now by the president and director council of NAACP Legal Defense and Education Fund Sherrilyn Ifill. Sherilyn, you`ve been working on this for a very long time. In fact, you`ve devoted much of your career to litigating on this. What`s your reaction to the governor signing and the justification he and Republicans are using for it?
 Thank you, Chris. Well, I have been working on this along with the LDF team for the last month. It has been a process in which new bills have been dropped almost every day, each of them more onerous than the last.
All of this, you asked the question, Chris, why, why, why. You know, if we can go through all the provisions of the -- of this terrible bill, but it begins with the question, why was this necessary? What evidence is there of insecure elections or voter fraud that justifies these sweeping changes? There are none. There are none.
And so, we are looking at a profound and important democratic moment in our country. I dare say, anti-democratic moment in our country. It has demonstrated what I feared would happen after January th, The head has been cut off of the Hydra. And now each of the states who are engaged in voter suppression will enact their own legislation. We`re seeing this happen around the country.
But this Georgia legislation is so embarrassingly anti-democratic that, you know, when I hear Brian Kemp and others sound defensive about the President`s use of the term, Jim Crow, you know, what the Jim Crow people had, to credit them, is that they were honest about what they were doing.
You don`t get to cover yourself in the veneer of concern about election security, and engage in this kind of conduct that criminalizes providing water and food to people standing on long holding lines. And they`re standing on long voting lines because of the restrictions you created around early voting and absentee voting. It`s utterly despicable.
 Yes. The cynicism here I really find breathtaking. I mean, I said that before. But just, you know, they just lost these two runners, right? And they`re licking their wounds about it. So, then they just say -- decide, you know, what, we`re just going to cut down absentee ballot time on the run-offs. We`re going to make the run-off -- we`re going to make them run-off time shorter.
There`s like -- they`re not pointing to some -- there`s some problem, there was some fraud administering. No, they`re just like, we lost those two. And when we look at the numbers, we`d like to not lose any more. We think if we shorten that period, it probably gives us an advantage. Like, that`s it. It`s just bold-faced.
 Well, that`s what I think is chilling, and that I hope Americans from around the country, not just in Georgia see, is the very critical steps we are taking away from democracy. You provided some context at the top of the hour, Chris, but let`s take the context back further. Let`s take it back to last year and John Lewis, Georgia`s John Lewis on the Edmund Pettus Bridge, telling us to vote like we have never ever voted before, to keep the faith and not give up.
And that`s what voters did particularly black voters at record numbers in November and again in January. And think about you talk about -- you talk about the cynicism. Think about what it then means for the Georgia legislature to respond to that overwhelming level of civic engagement and expression of citizenship by coming out with this law and these efforts to ensure that it never happens again, to try and ensure that voters cannot engage in this level of civic participation.
This is a damage not only to Georgia, but to the entire country, and to those who last summer when this country was paralyzed with protests happening in  states who pledged themselves, particularly corporations, to be interested in focusing on racial justice. Where are their voices? Democracy benefits business. Democracy benefits communities. Democracy benefits everyone in this country. And we are at an inflection point, Chris. And today`s legislation demonstrates that.
 Yes. And I want to be clear here. I mean, we don`t know -- you know, we don`t know what the effects are, right? We know what the intention is here, right? We don`t -- we know what they`re trying to do. But it`s also the case, and you and I have talked about this before. People should be clear about the legacy of this. And I want to ask about the Voting Rights Act next, right, is that you`re right, obviously, that folks in Jim Crow and the -- and the folks that destroyed reconstruction, right, they were often very honest about what they were doing but they also did a lot of gaslighting.
And they also did a lot of like, well, we`re just a literacy test. I mean, you know, anyone could pass it. I mean, if you could pass it, it`s fine. I mean, what, you don`t you want illiterate voters, right? There`s multi- century history here of White politicians, suppressing Black votes under a facially race-neutral approach.
And the Voting Rights Act, a key part of that was saying, it doesn`t matter if the impact is disparate. You can call it whatever you want. And the Supreme Court gutted a huge portion of that. And if they hadn`t, Georgia couldn`t have passed this law today. Am I wrong about that? Like, this was made possible by that decision.
 You`re absolutely right. And in fact, Chris, what the Senate in ,  said in the report that accompany that particular section of the act that you`re describing, section five of the act, what they said was the purpose of section five was that they said it was to get at and protect against existing forms of voting discrimination.
And also, and I`m quoting the Senate report now, those ingenious forms, right, of discrimination that we may not have thought of at this moment. They understood that there were going to be new forms of voter suppression that didn`t even exist in . And that`s what the section five preclearance regime that would have required Georgia to submit these changes to a federal authority before they could enact them. That`s what they were designed to protect against.
But a majority of the Supreme Court led by Chief Justice Roberts decided that this was no longer necessary, that the formula was outdated, that Congress didn`t know what they were talking about when they reauthorized section five. And so, now, it has left our democracy naked and vulnerable to the forces of anti-democracy, of voter suppression that the  Congress understood very well and understood would continue to exist into the future.
 Final question for you. The provision I find the most chilling is a provision that would allow for a process for county boards of electors to be removed or essentially demoted from their duties by the state legislature. Now, the reason the context here is important is there were multiple Republican state legislatures, whether that was Arizona, Georgia, Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, who showed some openness to the idea of going along with the Trump plan, but couldn`t quite do it often because local election officials are ultimately the ones who are certifying.
This looks a lot like paving the way for a state legislature to reach in to say, Fulton County, where there`s a bunch of votes they don`t like, and getting up to mischief.
 Yes, it sure does. And of course, when that happens, it will -- it will be as though this is some kind of -- something that couldn`t be anticipated. This is creating -- laying the groundwork for that. It is actually, you`re quite right, one of the most stunning parts of this bill is this takeover of the local election infrastructure and process and ensuring that the Secretary of State does not really have the power and making sure that the legislature has the power over the -- over these local election practices and these what had been local election boards.
This is -- it`s unbelievable that this can go forward with barely an outcry even by members of state election boards about what this means.
 Yes.
 This is significant, Chris. And this is why we need -- we need federal legislation. You know, just like we needed the Voting Rights Act in , we needed federal legislation to deal with the misbehavior of Alabama and Mississippi and Georgia and Florida. Now, we need H.R. and we need H.R. to deal with the misbehavior of Georgia, and Texas is coming through the pipeline, and Arizona, and Iowa, and Wisconsin, and other states that are planning to now try to ensure that they can pass local laws that sometimes I think we forget what this really means.
These are people who are suggesting that if we lose the elections, we are going to change the rules of the game -- the game so that we always win. That is autocracy. It is not democracy. We are at a powerful moment. This is as powerful as January th and we have to respond with power. So, we need that federal legislation.
 Sherrilyn Ifill, thank you so much. Last-minute notice for coming on tonight. I really, really truly appreciate it.
 Thank you for having me, Chris.
 These despicable voting restrictions that are now the law of the land in the same state that just sent elected -- just elected two Democrats in the Senate it`s just one of dozens of Republican attempts to squash the vote across the country.

 This makes Jim Crow look like Jim Eagle. I mean, this is gigantic what they`re trying to do. And it cannot be sustained.

 I`m going to be honest with you, I don`t really know what Jim Eagle means. But momentum is turning in Washington as Democratic senators consider once unthinkable actions to save American democracy. That`s next.


 I believe we should go back to a position of the filibuster that has existed just when I came to the United States Senate  years ago. It`s been abused in a gigantic way. And for example, it used to be you had to stand there and talk and talk and talk and talk until you collapsed. And guess what? People got tired of talking and tired of collapsing. The filibuster has broke down and were able to break the filibuster, get a quorum and vote. So, I strongly support moving in that direction.
If there`s complete lockdown and chaos as a consequence of the filibuster, then we`ll have to go beyond what I`m talking about.

 Right now, Democrats trying to pass a sweeping bill to expand voting rights to make elections more fair, H.R.. A project that feels particularly urgent on a night the Republican Governor of Georgia signed this sweeping voter suppression bill. But the Senate filibuster means they cannot pass the bill without at least  Republican votes, which is basically unthinkable.
And that`s why today President Biden spoke as aggressively as he ever has really about reforming the filibuster, you saw that sound just there, as the momentum for change is palpably building day by day.
Just last week, Senator Dianne Feinstein, formerly a staunch defer of the filibuster said she was open to changing the rules in order to pass big important legislation like Voting Rights Bill. But some Senate Democrats remain firmly opposed like Joe Manchin, who is now, I have to say on his back foot a bit, releasing this statement today calling for a bipartisan solution to passing the voting rights package saying in part, "Pushing through legislation of this magnitude on a partisan basis may garner short term benefits, but will inevitably only exacerbate the distrust that millions of Americans harbor against the U.S. government."
I have to say, personally, I`ve been covering this battle for ,  years. I`ve been watching this issue. And right now, the wind is at the back of the reformers more than it ever has been. Former Democratic Senator Russ Feingold of Wisconsin has watched the trajectory of this issue, the filibuster, since his time in the Senate. He`s currently president of the American Constitution Society. And he joins me now.
Let me -- let me start there, Senator, in terms of the trajectory of this. Do you agree that there`s more momentum now, there`s more unanimity among the caucus something has to change than there ever has been before?
 Well, there is. And it isn`t because of the caucus, it`s because of the monstrous things that are being done that you just brilliantly reported on in Georgia. When you have a situation where a -year-old woman has to wait in line for hours and can`t even get some water or food in the voting line, there`s a sickness as the President said. There`s something despicable going on.
And the Senate has to be able to respond to that. So, as a Senator Warnock of Georgia said apparently on the floor, he said, the notion that you`re going to protect the rights of the minority at the -- in the Senate, at the expense of the rights of the minorities across the United States is absurd. So, it is time for reform at a minimum of the filibuster, or at least an exception with regard to voting rights because these voting rights are foundational to our democracy. They are more foundational to our democracy than the filibuster ever has been or ever will be.
 So, let me -- let me sort of play out the argument here. And I want to argue on the other side and get your response to it, right? So, let`s say the filibuster goes away. The next time Republicans have their version of a trifecta as a Republican president, House and Senate, narrow majority, they essentially pass something like a national version of the Georgia law. They put in a bunch of restrictions. They say to states actually -- you can`t do no-excuse absentee unless you do X, Y, and Z. Are you worried about a sort of back and forth battle over this basic kind of access to the franchise?
 I`m not actually advocating necessarily the complete elimination of the filibuster. If that was absolutely necessary, so be it. But what can be done is to create exceptions at this point or sunset exceptions for critical things like voting rights. But to be honest with you, I don`t think people should be intimidated by Mitch McConnell`s threats, because you know what, he`ll do it anyway.
Just because -- just because you sort of play nice or don`t make any changes now, that won`t stop him as he demonstrated in the most outrageous way with the theft of the United States Supreme Court that he did with regard to the Scalia and Ginsberg nomination. So, it would be crazy for people to not do something strong now and make sure voting rights are protected out of some kind of a fear of what Mitch McConnell would do in the future.
 You wrote about this. You said today, Republicans and Democrats do not agree on what the problem is, let alone the solution when it comes to critical issues including voting rights, labor rights, climate change, and immigration. Keeping the filibuster in its current form will not change this. It will almost certainly prevent any legislation on these issues from passing.
And I think this speaks to a deeper point about the fact that there`s just -- the old way the Senate work has broken down to the extent that it ever did work, right? I mean, you just don`t have like gangs of six coming together, and they, you know, horse-trading, and they get some legislation that could pass  to , except on the omnibus bills. But for anything else, it just doesn`t happen anymore.
 It`s changed. Look, John McCain and I were able to start off with a Republican and a Democrat. And we did one Democrat and one Republican, and we did that in the context of the filibuster. But the filibuster was in our way. It wasn`t what promoted bipartisanship, it was the opposite.
And so, the idea that this works now is absurd because people don`t have to even talk as the President was pointing out, and even worse, it`s become partisan. The founders of this country did not believe in political parties. They`ve called it faction. And now the filibuster is used not to make preserve the idea of unlimited debate in the Senate. They don`t even really debate. It`s used to simply support purely partisan voting.
And that clearly was not the intent with regard to the founders. And it clearly can`t sustain itself in the st century when you`re going back to what is -- what can only be described as a revival of Jim Crow tactics in Georgia.
 How much confidence do you have that the reformers have a way of getting to those holdouts in the Democratic caucus? I mean, you have served in a Senate Democratic caucus that a lot of conservative members. In fact, the Senate has changed a lot. And there used to be a ton of, you know, Nebraska and South Dakota, and, you know, states that were very -- could be quite conservative. How much -- how much persuade ability is there to your mind?
 I think there is. I think -- I think this is, as you suggested, Chris, this is an exceptional moment. And when people, even conservative Democrats see the horror of what`s being done to voters. I mean, this is a sacred right of every American. The lack of respect for voters, and there are voters in every state, including West Virginia, who are vulnerable to this kind of thing.
I believe a public pressure will cause a reform or changing the filibuster at a minimum to make sure that a new voting rights bill will get through. I guess I do feel optimistic because what is being done is so monstrous and so extreme that I think even a number of Republican supporters, not necessarily senators, but a lot of Republicans with a conscience are going to say, wait a minute, this is just wrong. This has nothing to do with political party.
 Former Senator Russ Feingold who`s now president of the American Constitution Society, thank you so much.
 Thanks, Chris.
Coming up, the single biggest issue on the minds of Americans was treated like old news at Joe Biden`s press conference today. What that tells us about this president, the last president, and the press next.

 On the th day of his presidency, President Joe Biden held his first press conference. It`s the subject of a lot of impatient finger- tapping from other press who rightly noted it had been a while, longer than other previous presidents. You would think the pandemic which continues to alter almost every corner of American life would be at least a focus the questions the inpatient press corps would take the chance to ask. But it apparently wasn`t a big enough story today. In fact, there wasn`t a single question about it.
President Biden gave opening remarks on it. He announced some major initiatives that I`ll get to you in a second. And the press moved on and focused on other important stories. There are a lot of hard questions about the pandemic to be clear, not like softballs. Like, how we`re going to vaccinate the two-thirds of Americans who have not yet gotten a single shot? How we`re going to vaccinate the rest of the world?
There was not one single question on that. Not a single question on the $. trillion rescue package the Democrats passed that could cut child poverty in half. There`s some follow-up questions on how that`s going to be administered. There were more than a dozen questions about the border, just to give an example.
You know, for better or worse, this is a part of the structure of news in this country. We cover controversy. We cover conflict. We cover places for the opposition parties critiquing the party in power. And the situation at the border is absolutely an important story.
Just yesterday,  children were apprehed at the border, placed in CBP custody. These are kids seeking asylum.  kids, that`s -- you know, each of them a life, hopes dreams, right? Keep in mind, yesterday in America, those  kids were apprehed,  people died of COVID. Yesterday, dead, gone forever, their family is now in mourning.
We`ve all just gotten used to it. I mean, I don`t know what to do. It`s human nature, right? We all chalked it up. The thing grinds on the background. We`re all hoping to turn the corner and hoping for vaccinations. Think about how nuts it is. The th day of Biden presidency, the first press conference, there were more than a dozen questions about the border and not one about the pandemic.
Part of the reason for that too is that the administration has been pretty competent about handling the pandemic. In fact, they made news today when Biden announced he was increasing his goal from  million shots in the first  days to  million shots doubling his initial target. When they first set the goal of  million shots at the time when the President was sworn in, we said on this program it was insufficiently ambitious.
I said I hope they were under-promising and we`re going to over-deliver. And in fact, here`s what Republican Congressman Dan Crenshaw, a huge Biden critic said.

 If the Biden administration wants to impress us, you know what, double the goal. Say  million vaccines in  days. I will be impressed. I`ll go on the record right now and say that I will be impressed if you can do that.

 All right, well, there`s a very good chance we`re going to get  million shots in Biden`s first  days, so we can all be impressed. We`re vaccinating better than any big country in the world right now.
I get reporters do not want to ask questions about success. We don`t cover the planes that land safely. That`s -- again, that`s part of how news works. But let`s not just turn the page too quickly on this. This devastating virus is still out there, OK. Look what`s happening in Brazil where in more than half of the country`s  states, ICU occupancy rates have hit  percent or above.
There have been numerous reports in Brazilian media on social media platforms with patients dying while waiting for beds, shortages of medicines and oxygen, bodies being dumped in hospital corridors. This is happening more than a year into the pandemic in a place with warm weather.
And while things are getting better in the U.S., getting from where we are now with less than  percent of all adults who`ve gotten two doses to herd immunity with somewhere above  percent of population fully vaccinated. That`s still a big logistical task. Let`s not get bored of it.
And in addition to that, I have to say, I for one, I am not going to let go of the fact that the previous administration was so resolutely incompetent and almost criminally negligent about this disease, so insidious of their lies and their denial that hundreds of thousands of people in this country died who did not need to. This is what Trump was saying exactly a year ago, yesterday.

 Look, Eastern is a very special day for me. And I see it`s sort of in that timeline that I`m thinking about. And I say, wouldn`t it be great to have all of the churches full?

 All the churches full in Easter . That ridiculous moment was just one example the colossal failure of leadership by the reality television host who was our president. And that failure cost us, according to a new study released this week, an unthinkable number of American lives. We`ll talk about that next.

 A new study by UCLA economist estimates that , people in this country died of COVID who could have been saved if Donald Trump, the Republican Party, and the government have implemented a more effective health strategy. , people who are dead who do not have to be.
That`s not in the distant past. It`s not some remote historical anecdote. It`s just a few months ago. I mean, it`s happening day after day. There are people still dying every day in the hospital. To get a sense of the difference in how the pandemic is being handled now compared to then, Biden comes in and says we`re going to try to get  million jobs in  days and then announces today we`re actually going to double that. Here`s what Donald Trump was promising a year ago.

 I think Easter Sunday, and you`ll have packed churches all over our country, I think it would be a beautiful time. And it`s just about the timeline that I think is right.

 Trump said the country will be open for Easter , packed and beautiful. A year later, over , people are dying every single day still. I am just imploring everyone, and believe me, I want to forget about it and move on as much as anyone, but let`s not forget about COVID, OK. We are not done with it yet. We aren`t. Do not just assume we have the vaccines rolling so we can move on to the next crisis.
 p.m.
Michelle, I got to say, I mean, again, you know, we don`t cover the plains that land, which is the sort of newsroom saying, and I get that. It`s just part of the structure of news. But I was really struck that there -- that COVID was absent from the exchanges in that room today.
 Well, look, I mean, I think that you know, progressives have this long critique of the White House Press Corps that everybody sort of forgot about during the Trump years because suddenly journalists were heroes to the "resistance."
But there`s always been a problem with kind of a certain sort of Washington insider journalism that is very easily worked by Republicans that, you know, kind of both sides journalism that is completely focused on partisan conflict and, you know, winning the morning. And I would have thought that some of that would have fallen away just because of the scale of the crisis that we`re all living through. But you know, old habits die Hard, right?
So, Trump is gone, the pandemic is not resolved but at least resolution is in sight. And so, you see old habits reasserting themselves.
 I mean, to me, Mehdi, it`s like, I don`t -- I don`t think anyone should be asking softball questions. Like, no one should be like, how are you doing such a great job of vaccination? Like, there`s also hard questions to ask about. You know, like Alex Green wrote a great piece about opening up intellectual property and patents to let other countries use some of the IP.
Like, there`s things to press on, but you got to press on -- this stuff is still going on. I do worry that it reflects a sort of societal lapse where we`re all like, haven`t run through the tape on this thing.
 Yes. I mean, we could have asked -- journalists could have asked the President about the issues of vaccine equity. That`s still a massive issue in America. Is the vaccine going out in a fair and equitable way to marginalized communities? Big question mark about that too rich and poor.
He could have -- you know, a journalist could have asked the president, what is he doing about that? I would have asked the president, is there going to be a COVID Crimes Commission. Just listening to you speak there, reminding us of the death toll, the avoidable deaths, the preventable deaths. Is there going to be a / style commission into COVID? If not, why not? For the highest death toll in America since the Civil War, are we just going to walk away from the fact that for the last year, Trump and his cronies allowed tens of thousands of people to die every week? I would have asked him about that.
I would have asked him what is the federal government doing to protect the people of Texas, for example, from a governor who does not care about their health and has just rescinded a mask mandate? Is there anything -- is there anything President Biden can do to protect America citizens living in Texas?
So, there`s a fair few things that could have been asked. And you know, we journalists often talk about how, oh, Congress is broken because they can`t pass bills that are popular in the country. Maybe we should ask about whether the media is broken if we can also reflect the concerns of our viewers and our readers and our listeners who say in polls that COVID and the economy are the top two issues. And those are the two issues that didn`t come up today.
 Yes. And I will say that, you know, again, the questions -- a lot of the questions themselves are good questions. Like, there`s a lot of good questions at the border. And, you know, he should be pressed on that. It`s just that in the aggregate, it gives you a sense what, I think, what you`re saying, Michelle, about the sort of where the news cycle is, as nature heals itself to sort of use the joke, right, in the post Trump era.
. Like, Joe Biden is not looking to make news. Joe Biden is not looking to like be the big megaphone. They have -- the very clear tactical sense on this that the less the better in that respect.
 And, you know, I think -- look, I think the criticisms of Biden for waiting so long to hold a press conference are completely legitimate.
 Yes, I agree.
 A leader in a democratic society should go out and address the public and answer questions. At the same time, there`s something sort of useless about these things. They`re not really designed to impart or elicit information. They`re designed to create very momentary headlines to catch somebody in a gaffe or a contradiction.
And so, you know, you can sort of understand why the administration says, you know, this isn`t a priority. And there has to be a way to hold the president to account, right, to not let him off the hook without just making these things an occasion for letting -- you know, for kind of rehashing dishonest Republican talking points or framing.
As you said, the border -- the border is a legitimate issue. The idea that the border crisis is the overweening problem facing this country, the idea that it dwarfs everything else is, you know, is a complete political fiction and shows how easily this kind of  working works on the Washington Press Corps.
 Yes. That -- the sense of perspective there, Mehdi, who`s also you and I have both been covering the border quite a bit, right, but that sense of perspective. And also, I think, this question of like, there`s a lot of people looking around saying, like, what do we do with this from a news perspective? There`s this addiction that happened to the adrenal impulse of like the constant attention-seeking of this completely bizarre anti-social doofus that was president?
 Yes, very much so. I mean, the Trump shadow has cast over everything. And immigration allows journalists to say, yes, we can go back to being oppositional or doing both sides, as Michelle put it, because there is definitely stuff to push Joe Biden on. The problem is, you know, you said the immigration questions were pretty good. Maybe. I might disagree with you.
I think a lot of them did imbibe a lot of the right-wing framing that Michelle mentioned, and Joe Biden rightly pushed back on some of that. This constant idea that it`s because he`s too generous or open in his rhetoric that people are turning up, not true. This idea that Trump policies, canceling them affected the numbers, just not true, being debunked again and again.
And even this whole idea about the border crisis, do we call it a crisis? Calling something a crisis is not something -- it doesn`t have some objective definition in politics, nor is it something only Republicans get to do. We the media decide if something is a crisis if we call it a crisis, if we treat it as a crisis, if we give over our A blocks and our front pages to it. We -- you know, we story-tell, we frame stories, we -- you know, we aga-set. The idea that we`re neutral bystanders is absurd.
 Michelle Goldberg and Mehdi Hasan, always great to talk to both. Thank you very much.
 Thank you.
 Up next, this is the scene outside the Capitol today. Don`t worry, that`s not really Mark Zuckerberg dressed up as a Q shaman, but the role Facebook and others played in January th was a topic of conversation. We`ll explain after this.


 I don`t think anyone wants a world where you can only say things that private companies judged to be true, where every text message, e-mail, video and post has to be fact checked before you hit s.
But at the same time, we also don`t want misinformation to spread that undermines confidence in vaccines, stops people from voting, or causes other harms.

 Here`s the strange thing about American discourse in the year . A huge percentage of it is funneled through a handful of tech companies. And basically, like no one in America seems happy with the current arrangement. You know, those on the right are convinced the tech companies are censoring conservatives that are in the pocket of liberals. The left have voiced its own criticisms that tech companies are platforms that serve to massively propagate not just right-wing propaganda, but dangerous disinformation. They profit off it.
For example, there`s a study out today that links a dozen social media accounts to most of the anti-vaccine contents currently circulating online. And all this was on full display at a hearing today before the House to some of the biggest names in tech testifying.
Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky, Democrat from Illinois who chairs the House Committee which co-sponsors to the hearing -- today`s hearing joins me now.
Congressman, I watched parts of the hearing today. What was -- what was the plan? What was the intent of today`s hearing?
 Well, first of all, let me thank you so much, Chris, for having me. I`m a big fan. So, the purpose really was, from my point of view, to make sure that the tech companies understood that the day of software regulation is really entered, and that now it is time for us to regulate and that we int to, that we`re going to regulate, we`re going to legislate, and they are going to be held accountable for what`s on -- what`s on their web --
 So, I will -- I will confess to you that I have -- I feel very cross-pressured about this set of issues, right? At one level, I don`t love -- I don`t love the fact of a few tech companies and their boards of directors and CEOs making these monumental decisions about content, the flow of information, who can and can`t get a platform.
At another, I`ve -- we`ve seen the insidiousness and toxicity of some of the misinformation that spread on those platforms. And then I`m also wary of like, any kind of speech regulation. Like, how do you think about regulating in a way that that sort of gets rid of the bad stuff, but balances all those equities?
 Well, let me give you an example, Chris. If  decided to put on an ad to take money for an ad that was completely false, misleading, and hurt the election. For example, there was an ad that said that Joe Biden was orsed by Maduro of Venezuela that was said in Spanish on Facebook. You wouldn`t be liable for that falsehood. And why should not platforms also be liable them?
And so, you know, there are instances, of course, that we want to protect freedom of speech. No question. But you know, when they are spreading -- you`ve been talking about the -- about the virus and all of the misinformation that they are putting out on their Web sites is just not right.
 So, I want to -- you had an exchange about ads with Mark Zuckerberg today. I want to play a little bit about that and then -- and then follow up. Take a listen.

 Do you think that when you take money to run advertisements that promote this information, that you are exempt from liability? Yes or no?
 I don`t know the legal answer to that. But we don`t allow misinformation in our ads. And any ad that`s been fact-checked is false, we don`t allow it to run as an ad.

 So, I wanted to -- it was interesting to me, you were focused on the ad part of it, right? Because there`s two aspects here, right? There`s all the user-generated content, and then there`s the stuff in ads. You were very focused on the ad part. A, do you think that what Zuckerberg saying is true? And B, how would you propose to regulate them?
 Well, first of all, tring on Twitter today was the fact that he lied to me. Because actually, when it comes to political speech, pretty much anything goes. They don`t check every ad, so that was not right.
But I think when you -- when they are making money, and they are hand over fist making plenty of money, that they have to be accountable for the messaging that they are putting out there. And it can be very harmful messaging that not only hurts elections, that is putting out bad information about the -- about the virus, but it is actually kills people.
Facebook was very much involved, and Zuckerberg admitted to it, or Facebook did a couple of years ago, for the genocide that took place in Myanmar, of the Rohingya people. That`s how it was really organized through Facebook.
 Right. And -- but there`s a case where we get to the more -- to me the throne of your question, right, which is that genocide, the worst thing that`s probably ever been organized on Facebook, and they -- you`re right, they fest up to that. That was done through people coordinating on the platform, not ads, right?
So, then the question becomes like, what those sort of content moderation policies look like, and the degree to which the government is specifically prescribing them?
 Yes, so I -- but I do think that there -- are have to be some limitations, not just on advertising but the kind of thing that were -- I mean, they have -- Facebook has housed QAnon for many, many years. And certainly, on the sixth of January, that was coordinated.
 Yes.
 Well, people died.
 Yeah. We`ve got -- and the coordination in fact showed up yesterday in some of the court filings actually in which Facebook messages in which one of themselves called an insurrection. Congresswoman Jan Schakowsky of Illinois, thank you so much for making time tonight.

And thanks to you at home for joining us this hour.
After the shootings, the mass shooting at the Sandy Hook elementary school in Connecticut in , President Obama asked the then Vice President Joe Biden to lead a task force for the Obama administration on potential reforms to gun laws and gun policies, to try to find a way to advance gun safety somehow, to try to find a way around the obstacles that have made any kind of progress on that issue completely politically impossible since the early s. All the while, the country was experiencing more and more and more increasingly horrific single shooter mass killings, gun massacres every year, while it became increasingly impossible to do absolutely anything in response to that.
President Obama put Joe Biden, then vice president, in charge of leading a task force in the Obama administration, to try to find a way around the obstacles that have made progress impossible, to try to figure out what could be done.
President Biden took charge of that and they moved very, very fast. It was December th  when the Sandy Hook elementary school shooting happened,  little kids and teachers and school staff. That was a Friday, December th.
Before the next week was up, the following Thursday on December th, then Vice President Joe Biden had already started convening the first meetings in Washington.

 The president asked me to convene this meeting with you and we`ll be talking with others as well, because we have to have a comprehensive way in which to respond to the mass murder of our children, and we saw in Connecticut, you`re the first with whom when a president giving this charge along with some of our cabinet colleagues here. You`re the first group I wanted to speak with.
So what I`d like to do is the president is absolutely committed to keeping his promise that we will act and we`ll act in a way that is designed, even if he says we can only save one life. We have to take action. There are a number of things you know because I`ve spoken with you all for sew many years and continue that relationship over the past four years that there`s some things we can immediately do.

 Then Vice President Joe Biden. That was less than a week after the elementary secrete massacre in December, . That was only six days after it happened. It`s convening that first meeting, in that case with law enforcement officials. That was the first meeting of that task force that he held but then he worked like a whirlwind on it. The pace of it, looking back, is -- I had forgotten how quickly it moved before I went back and looked at the timeline.
Here`s how "The Washington Post" described it. Just the following month in January . They said, quote, in the  days after the massacre at Sandy Hook Elementary School, gun control rocketed through what one administration official called a time warp, transforming from an issue that was politically off limits to one at the top of Obama`s aga.
At the center of the transformation was the Biden-led task force. It held  meetings, most of them in the same week, many of them over two hours long, Biden furiously scribbling notes in a black leather-bound spiral notebook. The group collected ideas from  organization, or as Biden put it last week, quote, reviewing just about every idea that has been written up only to gather dust on the shelf of some agency.
"The Post" continues, quote, the vice president placed phone calls, too, including one -month chat one night with the parents of a student who died at Sandy Hook. One administration said, quote, it was like watching an entire term of Senate hearings compressed into a week. Biden was gently interrogating witnesses, following up, finding common ground, finding discrepancies.
Again, that`s  days after Sandy Hook happened. In the , the Biden task force moving incredibly quickly, meeting with everybody from law enforcement in that first meeting to clergy to families of gun violence victories to the NRA. Biden took an NRA meeting. He met with hunting groups, one of which gave him a duck decoy at the meeting. He even met with video game manufacturers.
All those different people being brought into the discussion at the  of all of it, a month into it, they recommed  different actions to try to increase gun safety, to try to reduce the number of Americans being killed by guns.

 I have no illusions about what we`re up against or how hard the task is in front of us, but I also have never seen the nation`s conscience so shaken by what happened in Sandy Hook. The world has changed and it`s demanding action. And so, in this context, the president asked me to put together along with cabinet members a set of recommations about how we should proceed to meet that moral obligation that we have.

 That moral obligation. That was January . That was just a month after the Sandy Hook killings.
And Vice President Biden led this whirlwind incredibly intense, incredibly intensive process, and at the  of three days, had a set of  recommations, from new federal research funding to things that can only be done by Congress, things that can only be done through legislation. President Obama himself stood next to Vice President Biden as he explained the recommations. And then the president talked about the one, single, simplest, smallest thing that could be done by legislation, something with more than  percent support among the American people, something that had massive support, more than  percent support even among members of the NRA.

 It`s time for Congress to require a universal background check for anyone trying to buy a gun.

The law already requires licensed gun dealers to run background checks and over the last  years, that`s kept . million of the wrong people from getting their hands on a gun, but it`s hard to enforce that law when as many as  percent of all gun purchases are conducted without a background check. That`s not safe, that`s not smart, it`s not fair to responsible gun buyers or sellers.
If I want to buy a gun, whether it`s from a licensed dealer or a private seller, you should at least have to show you`re not a felon or somebody legally prohibited from buying one. This is common sense. An overwhelming majority of Americans agree with us on the need for universal background checks, including more than  percent of the National Rifle Association`s members, according to one survey. So, there`s no reason we can`t do this.

 There`s no reason that we can`t do this, he says. There`s no reason we can`t do it, except apparently, that we cannot do.
You might remember how this all unfolded. You`re fore given if it`s blurred together during the years because of the way these things resolve. Remember how this happened. After Sandy Hook, Vice President Biden put in charge of a task force which moves with incredible alacrity, incredible speed to come up with concrete proposals for things that can be done to try to reduce the number of people killed by guns in this country.
President Obama proposed just what you heard there, universal background checks, background checks should be run on the buyer anytime anybody wants to buy a gun in this country,  percent plus support for that among American people.
It`s simple. You have to have a background check if you want to buy a gun. That`s a simple idea. Overwhelming support, near unanimous support among the American people but Republicans in Congress, including Republicans in the Senate are not among that  percent-plus, apparently and decided they would go for something even lower than that smallest symbol of goal.
Conservative Democrat Joe Manchin and Republican Pat Toomey, both with A ratings from the NRA, they said they wouldn`t pursue, they wouldn`t allow the pursuit of a simple rule that there ought to be a background check to buy a gun. Instead, they had their own idea and said they could get it done. They had their own way.
They had something that they said they could pass. We wouldn`t do more than what  percent of the country wanted to do. We instead just do a tiny little piece of it because they said so.
So instead of that simple thing, saying you have to have a background check, full shot, Senator Manchin and Senator Toomey said, no, no, we think that`s a terrible idea. We`re against that. We know  percent of the people are for it, we`re against it. But our idea is that the law will change to just say you have to have a background check if you buy a gun at a gun show or on the Internet. Only ext background checks that far. Gun show purchases, internet purchases, that`s it.
It is hard to imagine a smaller reform. But that is what they said they would do. That is what they said they could do. And so, the rest of the country, again, more than  percent just want freaking background checks for gun sales, full stop, the rest of the country stood back and took very credible senators pursue this basically rinky-dink reform instead. They said that was something they could get done and they failed. They couldn`t even get that done, not through the United States senate, not even right after the Sandy Hook massacre.
Joe Manchin and Pat Toomey were convinced, they convinced the whole political class that they had magic gravitas on this issue to show that the legislative process in the United States Senate can be trusted to work to do at least the smallest imaginable thing in an issue of overwhelming public concern. They were wrong. They could not even do that one pitiful thing.
Not in the United States senate. Not with filibuster rules in place that say a majority vote doesn`t count. So nothing happened in American law. No law change. Nothing made it through Congress.
In the final year of his presidency, President Obama was still not just expressing regret about that, still not just exhibiting a rare for him show of anger about that. In the final year of his presidency, he was still actively emotional about that years later.

 Second Amment rights are important. But there are other rights we care about as well. We have to be able to balance them. Because our right to worship freely and safely, that right was denied to Christians in Charleston, South Carolina, and that was denied Jews in Kansas City, and that was Muslims in Chapel Hill, and Sikhs in Oak Creek. They had rights, too.

Our right to peaceful assembly, that right was robbed from moviegoers in Aurora and Lafayette. Our inalienable right to life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness, those rights were stripped from college kids in Blacksburg and Santa Barbara, and from high schoolers at Columbine, and from first graders in Newtown, first graders.
And from every family who never imagined that their loved one would be taken from our lives by a bullet from a gun. Every time I think about those kids, it gets me mad.

 That was President Obama in , emotionally reflecting on the fact that even after the murder of all those six-year-olds at Sandy Hook, even after all those other mass murders of dozens of Americans all killed by individual shooters legally armed to the teeth, even with all that -- no, the United States Senate insists there can be no changes, no reforms.
Joe Manchin insisted after Sandy Hook in  that he was the one who could do it, that he would show that the United States Senate was not broken, and it could absolutely do its job on this issue as long as you let someone like him define the job that was to be done. Just as long as you let someone like him lead the way. Just as long as you let somebody like him work with other senators like him who had so much credibility in the gun lobby.
We can`t do anything more ambition than what he wants and what they want. But watch what they can do when they finally decide to work on this, right? Because people like Joe Manchin said there`s some credibility on this issue, they could get things done. Things that we all agree should be done. Just watch.
The Senate can work on this issue when it needs to. Just watch. Just put things in the hands of the senators who disagree with  plus percent of the American public on this.
The senators who represent the fringiest, smallest, most hard-line, vestigial, ancient paleo politics position on this, they`re the only ones with credibility on this issue. They`re the ones who decide what`s possible and they will show that the U.S. sent in isn`t broken, that things can be done, as long as they decide what those things are. Watch.
Everything else stopped. All that momentum after what happened in this country, after Sandy Hook, the out-flowing of emotion after Sandy Hook, all of the momentum that was taken by the administration, all of the public desperation to do something. Joe Manchin said give that to me. I`m the one. I`m -- my way, this is the way we`ll get things done.

 What we watched today really involved only one piece of what`s been a big complex debate about guns and it includes just a few senators. Yet, the impact seems so much larger in part pause of the emotion that helped make it happen.
Driven by their loss.
 I feel like I carry my daughter`s spirit when I got into these meetings. I wanted them to hear me as a mother. I asked them if they could please give me something I can tell my son.
 Surrounded by Newtown families to talk about today`s break- through on background checks but only a whisper could come forth.
Manchin, a Democrat partnered with Pat Toomey, a Republican, both A-rated by the NRA, to forge a compromise today.
 I think the substance of the bill makes a lot of sense. To me, this isn`t gun control. This is common sense.
 Under the plan, background checks combined to cover buyers at gun shows and shopping on the Internet, just like those already required when buying from licensed dealers. The law would not affect individuals who privately buy, sell or give their weapons to family, fris, or even strangers.
 This is something that`s so right, and it does so much good and to will prevent people who shouldn`t have a gun from having it.

 He could not get that done. Something that`s so right, it does so much good, he couldn`t get that done. And now he is insisting that he is the one who has to be trusted with this task again, because he will not allow anybody else`s ideas to move forward.
The alleged shooter in the Boulder, Colorado, massacre today was released from the hospital after receiving medical treatment and is now at the Boulder county jail charged with ten counts of murder. He is  years old.
He was born the same week at the Columbine high school massacre in . When Columbine happened, it felt like the world stopped and it would never start up the same way again. Thirteen people killed at Columbine high school in .
Again, it felt like the biggest news we`d know for a decade, right? But the country would continue to have mass shootings at actually an accelerating pace.
In , just before the Sandy Hook massacre, it was Aurora, Colorado, a massacre in a movie theater that left dozens of people shot and wounded, left  people killed.
But actually, the Colorado experience shows that the Joe Manchin don`t actually do anything plan is not the only option. And when we hear from senators like Joe Manchin that we can do nothing else, we have to put it in his hands, despite all the ways he`s failed in the past, you can look at a state like Colorado and say, actually, there are other options we could try. At the time of the Aurora killings, the governor of Colorado was a moderate man, John Hickenlooper, not exactly a champion of gun reforms at all.
But after Aurora, he came to believe that some common sense popular gun reforms were not only necessary, they were possible, and it`s worth doing. And Governor Hickenlooper announced his support for new gun safety reforms in Colorado state law. He announced it in December  just a few days before the Sandy Hook shooting happened. That, of course, focused the whole country`s attention, but Colorado was already moving.
In Colorado, they did pass new laws. Nothing radical, but common sense changes that were very, very popular with the public, including limiting high capacity ammunition magazines and yes, requiring background checks.
The Republicans and the gun lobby went nuts and vowed revenge. They did get some of that. Two Democratic senators who supported those reforms were recalled from office, two of them. The year after those gun reforms were signed by Governor Hickenlooper the following year  and again in , Republicans took control of the Colorado state senate.
But in , John Hickenlooper was also elected as Colorado governor, and in , Democrats won back the Colorado state senate. One incumbent was ousted from his seat. He lost his seat and by a lot to the father of a young man who was killed in the Aurora massacre. A gun lobby Republicans who had won the recall effort against those other two Democrats in the state senate who had supported gun reforms, those gun lobbyists went after Representative Sullivan as well but those attempts failed. Last week, Representative Sullivan he was just reelected.
Colorado is now represented in the United States Senate by Senator Michael Bennet and by Senator John Hickenlooper, the former governor. In order to get his seat in the U.S. senate, Senator Hickenlooper ousted pro-NRA incumbent Republican Senator Corey Gardner last year.
Senator Hickenlooper and Senator Bennet said today in the wake of the Boulder massacre that they support national reforms to support gun policy nationwide. A lot of Democratic senators are saying that today. When you hear that from Colorado, Senator Hickenlooper has lived through what it means to not only say that but to do it, to show that, yeah, you might rattle some cages when you do it but if you`ve got a the vast support of the people on your side, it will be viewed as the right thing to do, despite the fact that you will have opposition. And if you do it, there`s no guarantee in life. There`s no guarantee in politics that your career will thrive but Hickenlooper has show that it can.
Today, President Biden is calling once again for action for the country.

 I don`t need to wait another minute let alone an hour to take common sense steps that will save lives in the future and urge my colleagues in the House and Senate to act. We can ban assault weapons, and high capacity magazines in this country once again.
I got that done when I was a senator. It passed. It was law for the longest time. And it brought down these mass killings.
We should do it again. We can close the loopholes in our background check system including the Charleston loophole. That`s one of the best tools we have right now to prevent gun violence.
The Senate should immediately pass -- let me say it again. The United States Senate -- I hope some are listening -- should immediately pass the two House passed bills that close loopholes in the background check system. These are bills that receive votes of both Republicans and Democrats in the House.
This is not and should not be a partisan issue. This is an American issue. It will save lives, American lives. And we have to act.

 We have to act. But he`s talking to the United States Senate there. And Joe Manchin, the senator from West Virginia, he will not ask, even after the humiliation and what he dragged the country through in . Manchin reiterated today that he doesn`t support background checks for all gun sales, which is something that has already passed the House. It passed the house even with some Republican support, which means Joe Manchin is to the right of House Republicans on the issue of background checks which more than  percent of Americans and more than  percent of NRA members continue to support.
If he alone changed his mind on this and decided that he really does care about this, that actually probably would be enough to get that one reform over the finish line, which if he changed his stance on the bill itself, if he found it in his heart to support background checks. Given that, and his stamps on keeping the filibuster rule in place so that majority votes don`t count even for his own legislation, those two issues alone, Joe Manchin holds the fate of this in his hands. He promised this was an issue that moved him, in tears, as a parent, as a grand parent, he promised that he could get it done.
He could get it done, actually, now, if he wanted to. I mean, even now with the NRA almost dissolved in disgrace and in bankruptcy, instead of doing what he says he wants to do, he will do what the NRA wants instead. Not even the NRA`s members want that but Joe Manchin does.
And because of that he personally will stop the whole country from getting any substantive relief from this thing that plagues us still. And because of that, because the United States is broken in that particularly way, it will likely almost certainly come down again to whatever the president now President Biden can do on his own without Congress, which is not much.
And that is because the United States Senate does not work, even for things that more than  percent of the country wants done, even for things that tear our hearts apart this much and that agree on this much, even when we seem to agree on anything else. The United States Senate does not work in large part because of Democrats like Joe Manchin. And because of that we can`t do anything substantive as a country on this issue, despite senators like Joe Manchin saying this means a lot to them.
There`s a lot going on right now, including in Washington. Former First Lady Michelle Obama has tonight published a powerful call on the Senate to pass the federal rights voting bill that has passed the house and is ping before the Senate. She`s calling on them to change the filibuster if need be, in order to do that. We`re going to have a report coming up tonight on the real urgency behind that right now, something that happened last night and tonight and is going to continue to happen this week that ought to be on the national radar in terms of the urgency for that federal voting rights bill.
We`ve also got reporting ahead on a real problem at the Justice Department with a Bill Barr appointee, a sort of leftover in the Justice Department from the Trump era who has screwed up in a way that may screw up all of the January th Capitol rioter prosecutions.
A lot to come tonight. We`re going to speak with Congressman Joe Neguse tonight who represents Boulder, Colorado, where the shootings happened yesterday.
Lots to come tonight. Stay with us.


 There`s a lot that we don`t know. There`s a lot still unfolding from yesterday`s events. But let me simply say this. This cannot be our new normal.
We should be able to feel safe in our grocery stores. We should be able to feel safe in our schools, in our movie theaters, and in our communities. We need to see a change, because we have lost far too many lives.
As I said, I`ve lived in Boulder County for many years and one thing I am sure of is this, our community is strong, it is kind, it is compassionate, and it is resilient. And we will get through this together.

 Colorado Congressman Joe Neguse speaking about yesterday`s mass shooting in Boulder, Colorado. At that press conference, police released the names of the ten people who were killed in the massacre. They range in age from  to .
They also disclosed the name to have the -year-old suspect who`s in jail after being treated at the hospital yesterday for a gunshot wound. He faces ten counts of murder in the first degree.
Joining us now is Congressman Joe Neguse who represents Colorado Second District, which includes Boulder. He grew up in Boulder, has been serving his community there for years.
Congressman, thank you so much for joining us. I`m so sorry for what Boulder is going through right now.
 Thank you, Rachel. I appreciate it.
 One of the things that has been difficult even just nationally looking in on this disaster is how long it has taken to get basic information about what happened. There was a long delay, obviously, a chaotic scene and an emotional one for police, who lost one of their own along the way. And then the late night news that it was worse than initially reported had suggested.
Now that we have a sense of the scale of this catastrophe, I have to just ask how you think your constituents are doing, how Boulder is doing today?
 They`re hurting, Rachel. They are hurting. It`s been a devastating  hours for our community here in Boulder, for our state and for our country.
The loss of life is truly unimaginable. But when you consider the ten people who lost their lives yesterday, people who were fris or family members, brothers, sisters, neighbors, treasured community members, each of whom lost their lives, and the families who woke up this morning without their loved ones, that pain, that anguish is just too hard to fathom.
So, our community is grieving. And it`s going to take a while. There will be very difficult days, weeks, and months ahead as we grieve with those families and, of course, with Officer Talley`s family, an officer who bravely gave his life and his heroism saved lives. It`s just a heartbreaking tragedy.
 I think that it is heartbreaking for anybody looking in on this, particularly those who can emphasize with it, because there have been mass shootings chose to them or their communities. And there are so many Americans in that circumstance. I think we are also becoming a little bit hard-hearted about these things when we think about whether or not we`ll ever adapt as a community and as a country to try to stop things like this from happening in the future.
We lament these things. We tear ourselves up about them. But I feel like we were sort of dissolving into a bipartisan hard hearted system that it`s worth trying to reform gun laws, trying to reform the kind of policies and processes around gun ownership and gun transfers and ammunition purchases and things like that. That might make a difference. How are you feeling on that scale today?
 I`m frustrated. You know, I have to say, Rachel, I -- you`re -- the frustration I can hear in your opening remarks on the program resonated with me and I think resonated with a whole lot of Americans, certainly many of my constituents who I`ve spoken to in the last day and a half.
Folks are upset, they are grieving, they are angry at the up action of the federal government in taking gun violence seriously. There is clearly a gun violence crisis in our country that has been metastasizing year after year, decade after decade.
You mentioned Columbine high school. I was  years old when that massacre at Columbine occurred. And to think it`s been  years and the reality, the federal government has done virtually nothing to address the pervasive gun violence that hit literally our home community just last night, it`s difficult to fathom.
And we can`t at the  of the day accept failure and inaction as an option. I think we have to press forward and I`m certainly going to press forward with my colleagues to make sure we pass common sense gun violence reform. Its time has come. I think the American people have to say enough is enough and we`re not going to accept inaction.
 You, by dent of this tragedy, will now become one of the informal caucus in Congress, and there are many members of that caucus where your district has been marred by an act of national significance, a mass murder, a mass -- act of mass gun violence in your district. And when these things happen in the future, you will be called upon to speak as the representative of a community that struggled through one of these things.
It does feel like the moral authority, which you gain here, of course, will come at a cost in handling this tragedy, but you will have a voice from here on out in terms of talking about how the country should handle these things.
When you hear frustration from people like me, when you hear frustration from your constituents about the Senate being the place where these things go to die, is that livened at all for you by any hope that it actually will change in the Senate, that hearts might change, that the Senate might get their gumption together, to get rid of the filibuster role that stopped these things. Are you hopeful that things could move?
 I am, Rachel. I am. I have to be.
You know, I firmly believe public opinion has tred in the direction of support for these broadly popular provisions that we have been discussing like universal background checks as an example. I int to reach out to every single United States senator about why we need to enact common sense gun violence reform legislation. I believe -- I truly believe that we can make this happen, that we can get it done.
For those who doubt that, I would simply say in the last year, Rachel, in February of last year, I had an opportunity foe att the president`s State of the Union. I brought as my guest, Tom Mauser. He tragically lost his son Daniel during the Columbine High School shooting. Daniel was my age when he lost his life.
And Tom refused to give up. He spent the better of the next year and a half campaigning for amment . It`s an amment that ultimately passed in our state, closing the gun show loophole. You articulated in great detail the various steps that Colorado has taken over the course of the last two decades. There`s more work to do, but we have to be hopeful that this is a problem, a crisis that we can solve, because there`s simply no excuses to not doing so. And my constituents are tired of excuses.
 Congressman Joe Neguse, who represents Boulder -- sir, thank you so much for your time tonight and this chance to talk with you. I know it`s a really difficult time. Thanks for being here.
 Thank you, Rachel.
 Hearing him say that, you know, you want -- you want public servants, particularly young, incredibly talented public servants, like Congressman Neguse, I`m talking about his behind his back, you want people with talent and ambition and values and the kind of communication skills that somebody like that has.
But you do actually want public servants with hope, right? You want people who believe even against the kind of circumstances that I`ve been describing here tonight, the sort of, you know, brick wall that we`ve run into so many times in this country, despite the public will to do something, you want people in positions of power and people who are ascant in politics who believe that stuff can get done.
Anyway, we`ll be right back. Stay with us.

 With not one but two terrible mass shootings within the span of a week, debate in Congress is shifting to whether or not Democrats will change the filibuster rules in the Senate so we can finally have some gun safety reforms as a country, because of where almost all Republicans stand on this issue, if Senate Democrats don`t at least try, it is basically guaranteed there will be no gun reform at all.
There will also be no move to protect voting rights at all. Last night during a private call between President Biden and Senate Democrats, Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock reportedly raised with the president the urgent need for the Senate to pass national voting rights legislation to counter efforts by Republicans in his state and others to radically restrict voting rights. And that led apparently in this discussion between the president and Senate Democrats to a discussion during that call about reform of the filibuster.
If Democrats aren`t going to do anything to stop Republicans nationwide from rolling back voting rights, they`re going to have to do it soon if it`s going to have an effect in Georgia. Earlier this month, both the Georgia House of Representatives and the Senate passed a bunch of bills to try to make voting harder. In just the past  hours, two of those proposals made their way out of committee and are now ready to be voted into law. These bills will do everything from adding absentee ballot voter ID requirements, to limiting drop boxes, to disqualifying provisional ballots, to making it illegal to hand out water to people who are waiting in long lines to vote.
Republicans in Georgia plan to combine all these voter suppression proposals into one big voter suppression bill before the state`s deadline eight days from now to pass legislation this year. They want to get on the governor`s desk for him to sign right away within the next few days.
What`s going on in Georgia or nationally over the next eight days that might derail this speeding train?
Joining us once again is LaTosha Brown. She`s cofounder of Black Voters Matter, a group that`s been campaigning to get Georgia-based companies, businesses, to come out against this wave of state legislation to restrict voting rights.
Ms. Brown, thank you so much for being with us. It`s nice to have you back.
 Thank you for having me, Rachel.
 So I asked the last time that you were here if you would come back and keep us apprised because it did feel like this was going to move fast when it started moving. I`m now making good on that. And I`d like to ask you to get us up to speed about where things are and how fast this is going.
 It`s moving pretty fast. You know, what we hear is they are very deeply disappointed in is it seems like the Metro Atlanta Chamber of Commerce cut a deal with Republicans who actually met with Republicans, according to the minority Democrat leader, didn`t bother to meet the Democrats in Congress. And on deal with SB, Senate bill , which is devastating. That`s a bill that actually cuts out Sunday voting on -- new omnibus bill on -- during runoffs and some of the things that you raised, including the most egregious part of it, is that it gives whoever the -- it gives the Republicans whoever`s in power authority over the board of elections.
So, quite frankly, if they don`t like the results, they can do a recall and cancel elections, but -- the results. So that is part of the problem that`s all predicated on this big lie that Trump made. So, right now, what we`re seeing is organizations like ours, the New Georgia Project, Action PAC, NAACP, there are  ministers that met on Friday. They delivered a letter to Governor Brian Kemp`s office, saying that this is egregious and that we want to see him veto this bill that this bill should not advance.
Black voters and voters in the state should not be punished because they use their civil rights in this last election cycle.
 You mentioned one change that I think is worth pausing on and going back to for a second. This idea that the Republicans in the state legislate your in this new legislation that they want to pass, they would have the authority to remove local elections boards and local elections supervisors if this bill passes.
I mean, if you think about what they would have done with that power after the  election, the way that President Trump and President Trump`s supporters and Republicans pressure to try to stop the certification and votes in individual counties, to try to reverse the vote count, to try to undermine those things at the local level, this legislation they`re passing would have given Republicans around the legislature the ability potentially to stop individual counties from certifying the vote. They could replace whole local election boards and just say, no, no, we`re putting on our people there.
 Absolutely. It would have been devastating. The outcome would have I believe totally different.
And so, as we`re going forward, it`s so anti-democratic. So, you know, it`s interesting. Today -- on today, this is  years when Andrew  actually as president of this country vetoes the civil rights bill that was ultimately was overridden a couple of days later, but we`re still  years later fighting for the basic right to vote.
This is not a partisan issue. This should be a basic civil right issue.
 LaTosha Brown, the co-founder of Black Voters Matter, thank you for your time. Thank you also for keeping our focus, for keeping us honest on this issue about what Georgia businesses are doing here. Their public platitudes to the contrary, their actual actions here being closely monitored by you and other groups in the state are keeping the national media honest on this in the way that I think we couldn`t be without your close watching. Thank you for helping us understand.
 Absolutely. Thank you for having me.
 We`ll be right back. Stay with us.

 The Justice Department is having an uh-oh moment involving the guy who until a couple days ago, was in charge of the investigation on the January  attack on the Capitol. That is a bad thing to be screwed up by a former Trump Justice Department official. But that`s what`s happening.
The former U.S. attorney decided as he was leaving office this past week, that he would go on national television and publicly speculate about what further charges prosecutors might bring against the Capitol rioters. His name is Michael Sherwin and he went on " Minutes" and said that he thinks federal prosecutors probably bring sedition charges against some of the people who are currently charged in big conspiracy cases for their actions at the Capitol.
He said, quote, I believe the facts do support those charges. And he talked about what the evidence is ultimately pointing at in terms of potential future charges.
You are not supposed to do that. There are very clear Justice Department rules about not making statements about charged individuals and ping cases, including potential future charges or the quality or nature of the evidence, the merits of potential charges.
You don`t talk about those things in the press because people don`t get tried in the press. You only make comments like that in official proceedings in court, not on TV.
Michael Sherwin apparently didn`t know that?
Justice Department veterans immediately raised red flags about that interview. We then learned that Sherwin apparently did this interview without permission from the Justice Department, where officials were reportedly, quote, infuriated by his interview.
Now today, it was starting to see the repercussions play out in court, in cases involving Capitol rioters. One Proud Boys leader citing Sherwin`s comments in a court filing today, opposing the government`s attempt to put him in jail, ping trial.
The judge in another conspiracy case called an emergency hearing today on six hours` notice specifically to make all the lawyers in the case discuss Sherwin`s comments. The judge told the lawyers, I`m surprised, and I`m being restrained in my use of terminology, surprised to say the least to see Mr. Sherwin sitting for an interview about a ping case, in an ongoing criminal investigation. These types of statements in the media have the potential of affecting the jury pool, and the rights of these defants, and the government, quite frankly, in my view should know better.
The judge said, let this hearing serve as notice on the Justice Department that I will not tolerate continued publicity in the media that I believe affects the fair trial rights of these defants.
The D.C. U.S. attorney`s office said the head of the criminal decision, he told the judge, quote, the Justice Department has rules and procedures that govern contact with the media and interviews. As far as we can determine at this point, the rules and procedures were not complied with respect to the " Minutes" interview. Therefore, that matter has referred to the Justice Department`s Office of Professional Responsibility to review.
So Michael Sherwin, this Bill Barr appointee who was acting D.C. U.S. attorney when the Capitol happened. So he took control from the first days. He is no longer acting U.S. attorney in D.C. but he is still a Justice Department employee. He is still subject to internal investigation and potential discipline by the Justice Department. He is now investigated for having given this media interview about ping cases.
Whatever happens to him personally as a repercussion for this bone-headed move, what he did can`t be undone when it comes to all these ongoing criminal cases. The Justice Department has to deal with the repercussions. It should be noted the judge also took the Justice Department to task for a "New York Times" article which cited anonymous law enforcement officials discussing the case, Justice Department officials said they opened an investigation into that article too, which means the Justice Department`s problems with its employees, talking to the media about ping Capitol riot cases goes behind Michael Sherwin.
But the Michael Sherwin problem is a really bad one. Is the Justice Department going to get it under control so they can try the cases without more surprises?
I hate to say it, but watch this space.



 -- important jobs, I want to work with them. I want to work in concert to make our criminal justice system more fair, more just and more safe. Constitution does also provide a direct supervisory role for the California Attorney General over sheriffs and district attorneys. But I want to and will seek collaboration, coalition building, solution-oriented approaches, as much as possible to move our state to where we need to be.
 California`s next Attorney General Rob Bonta, thank you very much for joining us tonight, we really appreciate it.
 Thanks for having me, .
 That`s Tonight`s . The  with  starts now.
 And good evening once again, day  of the Biden administration. There is explosive new reporting tonight about Republican Florida Congressman Matt Gaetz, who`s represented his district since  made a name for himself as one of the Trump iest members of the House of Representatives.
New York Times reporting the Justice Department is investigating Gaetz over "whether he had a sexual relationship with a  year old and paid for her to travel with him. The investigation was opened in the final months of the Trump administration under Attorney General William Barr."
Katie Benner, one of the Times reporters who broke this story standing by to join us in just a few minutes. No charges have been brought against the Congressman tonight. He up and down denied the allegations during an interview with Tucker Carlson.

 It is a horrible allegation. And it is a lie. The New York Times is running a story that I have traveled with a  year old woman and that is verifiably false. People can look at my travel records and see that that is not the case. What is happening is an extortion of me and my family involving a former Department of Justice official.

 As we mentioned much more on all of this just ahead in the hour. Tonight, two U.S. Capitol Police officers have filed a federal suit against Donald Trump for inciting the January  riot. The suit cites Trump`s speech on that day his conduct and statements leading up to the riot, his failure to take timely action to stop his followers. That complaint also details racial slurs aimed at one officer and the serious injuries both of these officers suffered during the insurrection.
Meanwhile, the current President getting ready to unveil his next big item on his aga, the Washington Post reporting, tomorrow he`ll announce a jobs and infrastructure package during a visit to Pittsburgh. A second proposal for sping on education and healthcare slated to follow that in a few weeks. The Post says Joe Biden will pay for the plan with new tax hikes, "These hikes will be particularly focused on corporations seeking to reverse much of President Trump`s  tax law. The combined price tag of the plans could top $ trillion."
We`re also of course, following the latest in the trial of Derek Chauvin, charged in the murder of George Floyd. This was the second day of testimony. Several witnesses described the harrowing final moments of George Floyd`s life. And the court also heard  calls from that day.

 . What`s the address of the emergency?
 Officer  killed a citizen in front of a Chicago store, he just pretty much just killed this guy that wasn`t resisting arrest. He had his knee on the dude`s neck the whole time. He was already in handcuffs. They pretty much killed the dude.

 That call came from that witness. You saw Donald Williams, who was later questioned by the defense about his interactions with officers on the scene.

 Did you hear any of the conversations occurring between the three officers with Mr. Floyd, yes or no?
 No.
 It`s fair to say that as you were there, you grew angrier.
 Correct.
 As you were there and interacting with Officer Thao and Officer Chauvin, you grew more and more upset. Would you agree with that?
 Correct.
 You started calling them names. Yes?
 You heard that. Yes.
 You called them a tough guy.
 I did.
 You called him a bum at least  times.
 That`s what you count in the video?
 That`s what I counted.
 That`s what you got, . I stayed in my body. You can`t paint me out to be angry.

 The court also heard the  call of another witness, Minneapolis Firefighter Genevieve Hansen, who was off duty when she came upon the scene.

 . What`s the address of the emergency?
 Hello I am on the block of th and Chicago, and I literally watched police officers not take a pulse and not do anything to save a man, and I am a first responder myself.
 I offered to kind of walk them through it or told them if he doesn`t have a pulse, you need to start compressions. And that wasn`t done either.
 How did that make you feel?
 Totally distressed.
 Were you frustrated?
 Yes.

 Also among the witnesses today, young people who were under age at the time, including a nine year old, and Darnella Frazier, who`s now . She is the one who recorded the video of Floyd`s death that was seen around the world and of course then sparked worldwide protests. So due to their ages, the judge allowed their audio to be broadcast but what not allow media to show their faces on camera as they testify.

 I heard George Floyd saying, "I can`t breathe. Please, get off of me. I can breathe." He cried for his mom. He was in pain. It seemed like he knew it was over for him. He was terrified. He was suffering. This was a cry for help.
 I was sad and kind of mad. It felt like he was stopping his breathing, and it was kind of like hurting him.
 Shoving his knee in his neck.
 I felt like there wasn`t really anything I could do, as a bystander, the highest power was there, and I felt like I was failing it.

 Darnella Frazier also described how her life changed after what she saw on May  of last year.

 When I look at George Floyd, I look at my dad. I look at my brothers. I look at my cousins, my uncles, because they are all black. I have a black father. I have a black brother. I have black fris. And I look at that and I look at how that could have been one of them. It`s been nights I stayed up apologizing and apologizing to George Floyd for not doing more and not physically interacting and not saving his life, but it`s like, it`s not what I should have done. It`s what he should have done.

 With that, let`s bring in our leadoff guests on this Tuesday night, Former U.S. Attorney ce Vance who spent  years as a federal prosecutor, Eugene Daniels, White House Correspondent for Politico, co- author of each day`s edition of the POLITICO Playbook. And we welcome to the broadcast, Holly Bailey, National Political Reporter for The Washington Post who notably was inside the courtroom for today`s proceedings in Minneapolis.
And Holly, by way of welcoming you here, I`d like to begin with you indeed, tonight. This was such an emotional day. I think people watching the wall to wall coverage have been surprised by the urgency of it, the tension of it, the humanity of it, in the face of inhumanity at the heart of this, how engaged are the jurors in your view and were they any more engaged on particular witnesses?
 Well, the jurors today look sympathetic, some of them recoiled and shocked at some of the testimony. We know from jury selection that again, a lot of these jurors had never watched the full video of Darnella`s phrases full video of George Floyd`s death. And so a lot of these clips that they`re seeing, that have been presented in court, the last few days are new to them. And so I think, you know, they`re looking at them and sort of digesting it and shock.
One of the things that really struck me today is just this reminder by listening to the voices of these girls, how young they were, and how this moment really is going to shape their lives forever. I mean, how can you walk down the street and see a man struggling with police officers begging for his life and get past that. And I think that was part of the reason that the prosecution put them on the stand today. They weren`t just witnesses. They were a reminder of how this incident has changed so many lives forever.
 Think about, ce Vance, the fact that just watching the video can affect a life change. Imagine having to witness the life draining out of a human being in front of you on that street corner. ce talk about the prosecution goal in front loading these emotional and sincere witnesses.
 So the science that prosecutors operate with, Brian, is the science of primacy and recency. When jurors go into the jury room to deliberate the pieces of evidence that they take with them the most strongly are the first thing that they heard primacy, and the last thing that they heard recency. And really the best witness that the prosecution has in this case is the videotapes of George Floyd`s death. So they were front and center this early in the trial. We will see them I think, throughout the trial as many times as the judge will let the prosecution play them, but expect to see them again in closing arguments so that they are the last piece of evidence that the jury takes with it when it begins its deliberations.
 Eugene, somewhat thankfully, you are to take us in another area, please. And that is your beat by day this giant initiative, the President is going to unveil tomorrow and the words a lot of Americans don`t like to hear, most of them wealthy, a lot of them work for big corporations, and that`s tax increases. What is the White House level of optimism going into this say nothing of the next tranche of funding for health and education?
 Right, we`re looking at another $ trillion, right, . trillion is what was just passed and signed into law with COVID relief bill, and the White House seems they have the wind at their back rack, they feel, like they had a huge win with COVID relief, and something that we continue to hear. We started hearing it a couple of months ago was that if something is popular with the American people, they consider that bipartisan that it doesn`t just have to be members of Congress agreeing, members of Congress compromising. But the problem here is that you can only use reconciliation so many times in the U.S. Senate. And that is something they`re going to have to cont with. If they want to really get this done they say that this is the President`s plan. He wants to meet with other with members of Congress, talk to them, see what other plans and ideas they have. But he really wants to get this done for the American people. It seems like they`re fine with, you know, pushing things through. We saw that with the like I said with the COVID relief bill.
It is -- the COVID relief bill was kind of the easiest thing that they needed to get done of this really ambitious aga that the President has, this bill in particular, this proposal $ trillion paid investments over eight years, but paid for over  years with  raising the corporate tax rate to %. That`s a long, and they`re doing all of that eight and  years so that they don`t raise the deficit, but also able to do these ambitious plans. So they`re trying to thread a really, really hit the needle here.
 You raise a fascinating point about using opinion polling as their view of bipartisanship, knowing full well the Senate. They`ve been dealt in the Senate. They are up against.
Holly, we spring back to the story you are covering. Let`s talk about members of the Floyd family. For those of us who can`t see the whole scope, how present are they and what was -- how are they doing, what was their reaction to this emotional and tense day two?
 The Florida family has been very present here in Minneapolis for the past few weeks since jury selection began way back on March , and they have a single seat in the courtroom. As your viewers might know there`s a - - the courtroom is socially distanced because of the pandemic, there`s a limit on the number of people who can be inside. So there is a chair set aside for the Floyd family and a chair set aside for an associate of Derek Chauvin, which has remained empty since this trial and this jury selection began several weeks ago.
But, you know, today his nephew is in the courtroom. And he didn`t watch the video. You know, the Floyd family has talked about the agony that they feel when they see this horrific video of their uncle, their brother, you know, under the knee of Derek Chauvin and so they struggle with it. I mean, and as we`ve seen in court, it`s not just Darnella Frazier`s video that is -- that has been presented, it`s several people filmed different levels of footage of George Floyd`s interaction with police that day, and so it`s plays throughout the hours every day in court.
 And ce, important point that should be said, because of the agony that that video can trigger, because we know that anyone who wishes to see it of course can, this news organization and others are severely limiting how much we aerate, look at what it`s sparked around the world and around our country. The big question for you, ce, given your courtroom appearance and your view of this case, does the defense call former Officer Chauvin?
 It`s always risky to have a defant testify. Of course, the defant is cloaked in the presumption of innocence. He has no obligation to establish his innocence. It`s up to the government to prove his guilt. So you come to a point in every trial, where the defense has to decide whether they`re going to put their client on the witness stand. Typically, they don`t let them testify in police cases that I have tried. It is rare to see an officer take the stand because of the damage that can be done in cross examination, which is unpredictable, even with a well prepared witness. The defense didn`t promise one way or the other in their opening statement. If I was a betting person, I would bet that we would not say Officer Chauvin take the stand, but the evidence against him is compelling. And ultimately, he may be forced to explain his intent. So maybe we will, in this case, say him testify.
 And Eugene, as we go back to your beat, let`s talk about the reason why there is but one chair in the courtroom for a revolving member of the Floyd family. And that is our current pandemic. The White House is surging vaccines to the American public. And as we`ve said before, they`re in a foot race with these new variants. They`re in a foot race contentious with all the states that are preting everything`s fine and opening up. How frustrated are they at the moves being made to counter this effort?
 Yeah, I mean, they`re intensely frustrated, right? They are working, obviously, extremely hard. The American people are giving them high marks on the pandemic, but also the actual relief plan that they just push through. And you saw the CDC director the other day, kind of talk about how terrified she is right? Getting emotional, talking about, you know, telling all of us to just hold on, right? We`re kind of at the finish line here. And all of us are frustrated, right? Like, I hate being at my house still all the time, not being able to leave, but what the health experts and the members of the administration that I speak to, they are really worried that, you know, right now we have spring breakers all over the country. In Florida, we`ve been seeing that quite a bit. And people not taking it as seriously, like you said, these states were masked mandates are no longer a thing and people are just operating as if everything is normal. And at the same time, we have variants rising, we have people getting colder than the normal COVID more so and that`s rising around the country as well, as they are trying to get vaccines in people, right? We -- they`ve obviously doubled their goal on the first  days to  million shots in people`s arms. But even that, I talked to health experts the other day that said even that feels like not enough when you add in all of the ways in which they feel like they`re kind of being undercut.
 After a long day for all three of our leadoff guests, we are much obliged to ce Vance, Holly Bailey, Eugene Daniels for joining us and starting off our broadcast tonight. Thank you all.
Coming up for us, the latest details on the federal investigation into republican Florida Congressman and Arden Trumper Matt Gaetz over an alleged relationship with a  year old, one of the reporters who broke the story joins us next.
And later, just as our country is forced to relive the killing of George Floyd, another video of another heinous hate crime against the Asian American community, a deeper look at this moment in our country with two of our favorite thinkers. All of it as the  is just getting underway on this Tuesday night.


 This former Department of Justice official tomorrow was supposed to be contacted by my father so that specific instructions could be given regarding the wiring of $. million as a down payment on this bribe. I don`t think it`s a coincidence that tonight somehow the New York Times is leaking this information, smearing me and ruining the investigation.

 More twists and turns tonight in this breaking story concerning the federal inquiry is what they`re calling it involving Florida Republican Congressman Matt Gaetz over possible sexual misconduct with a  year old.
Here with us for more is Katie Benner, Justice Department Reporter for The New York Times who along with Michael Schmidt broke the initial story in the Times.
Katie, I have to ask you to fold in the Congressman straight up denial tonight, his insistence that this was part of an extortion against him and his family, his father`s wearing of a wire surreptitious recordings, he says for the FBI. How does this fit in your initial reporting?
 Sure, well, initially we did not report anything about his father working with the FBI and wearing a wire or to stop an extortion scheme was actually Matt Gaetz who publicly disclosed that. So to the extent that investigation has been scuttled, it is more likely that`s because Matt Gaetz first publicly disclosed that investigation.
Now, in terms of our reporting, we look at an investigation that into Matt Gaetz that began in August in late summer of , when Donald Trump was the president, and William P. Barr was the Attorney General. We know that Barr and other top officials had to sign off on the investigation and OK it because Barr himself last year in the winter said that all such investigations needed to be run by top Justice Department officials. So this was something that the Justice Department under Donald Trump that was serious enough to pursue, and it involves allegations including the allegation that Congressman Gaetz had a relationship with a girl who was only  and took her across state lines.
 Katie, the Gaetz allegation of extortion is against one David McGee, a former federal prosecutor, and make no mistake, a formidable member of the Barr. He has put out a statement tonight reading in part, and he reports of extortion involving him or his firm were "completely totally false." This is a blatant attempt to distract from the fact that Matt Gaetz is apparently about to be indicted for sex trafficking underage girls." What`s your knowledge of Mr. McGee?
 So we know about Mr. McGee is he did work at the Justice Department. But he worked there more than two decades ago. He was the first assistant in the office of the Northern District of Florida, which is the district in which Matt Gaetz is a congressman. But again, this was decades ago, it seemed like Matt Gaetz was trying to say that this is somebody who`s currently involved in the Justice Department or would be involved with the case somehow, he`s not currently involved in the Justice Department. He is in private practice and has not been involved with DOJ for some time.
 And I don`t want to take you into the area of analysis but ours before this report broke, Matt Gaetz generated talk earlier today, especially on social media when he was musing about leaving Congress and taking a job at Newsmax. How does any of your reporting speak to the status of that?
 You know, all I can say is that reporters have been interested in what was going on with Congressman Gaetz for a while and to see those musings happen both in the press and then on Twitter that he would leave his seat, given the fact that he is close ally of Donald Trump that Trump could run again in , that he seems well situated that he`s popular in his district. It did seem odd. And I would say it`s fair to say that`s the kind of disclosure that really encouraged reporters to continue to dig.
 Katie Benner, a frequent resident of page one of the New York Times thank you for always being generous with your time, especially after a day filing a story like this one. Thank you very much for coming on.
Coming up for us, the whole world is watching a country -- a county rather, district courtroom in Minnesota, where it might seem like a former COP is on trial. But there`s a lot more going on.


 I believe I witnessed a murder.
 And so and you felt a need to call the police.
 Yes. I felt the need to call police on the police.
 Now there were police there, right?
 They were police there.
 OK. Why don`t you just talk to them about it.
 I believe that they -- I just -- we just didn`t have no connection. You know, I spoke to them, but not on a connection of a human being in relationship.
 Did you, well believe that they were involved.
 Yes, totally.

 Some more witness testimony today in the murder trial of former Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin. Six people took the stand. Back with us tonight, Caroline Randall Williams, she`s an author, poet, academic observer of all things political happens to be Writer-in-Residence with the Department of Medicine, Health and Society at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, and Michael Steel`s back with us as well, former chairman of the Republican National Committee, former lieutenant governor of the great state of Maryland, also happens to be the host of the Michael Steele podcast.
Good evening to you both. Thank you for coming on. Carolina, I`d like to begin with you it is life changing enough a point I made earlier to simply watch the video if you have measurable feelings if you were born with any humanity or empathy at all, if you can fog up a mirror.
Imagine having been in that crowd, imagine having been a young child and witnessed it, and now having to take the stand and relive it. Talk about this trial and its importance for our country right now.
 You know, watching the testimony today, I have to say, Tuesday`s my big teaching day, I have my two classes of students. I teach two classes a semester at Vanderbilt. And I taught both classes today at with George Floyd at the front of my mind, and his trial at the front of my mind. And we had moments of silence in both classes for the  seconds that had gone unacknowledged until these trials really unfolded.
And I think you know when we reckon with the fact that we all watched a lynching that a child filmed and posted on Facebook. But the work that we have to do is to reckon with the fact that whatever the ruling is, when you lynch somebody, the cause of death physiologically is past the point, whether it was the setting a body on fire, or the dragging him behind a truck, or the tarring and feathering or the drowning, or the gunshot wounds whatever way that a body was maimed and mangled because of like hate, and other people limitations.
That`s past the point. We watched Derek shove and put his hands in his pockets, and keep his knee on the neck of a man that was screaming for his life. While other people were advocating and affirming that his life was leaving him.
We watched that happen. And we watched a man who`d committed his life to protecting, allegedly protecting the peace of American people, you know, blindly ignore the dying American beneath his knee. And I think that the tension and strangeness of that having happened and our record of it being recorded by a child. It just -- it makes me think of Emmett Till, and it makes it feel like a terrible circle. But I hope that it`s a terrible circle that yield some new insights.
 It`s powerful stuff. Michael, Donald Williams, one of the witnesses had this quote that just continues to reverberate. I stayed in my body. You can`t paint me out to be angry. And something Caroline just said about the stance of Chauvin with his hands atop his pants pockets, in the most casual way, it doesn`t quite match with the attempt of the defense to talk up the notion of an unruly crowd, a tense situation all around him.
 No, there`s so much that the good Professor just said that just struck a nerve. The imagery and the power of it, reflected again, in the words that we heard on the stand by witnesses, Mr. Williams, telling us that I called the police on the police because I believed I was witnessing a murder.
The powerful words of Daniela Frazier, when the defense opens the door thinking, you know, they had a gotcha. And she comes back, and she said, let me tell you what I felt. It spoke so much for all of us, Brian, in the black community.
These witnesses today, who told the story from Emmett Till, to George Floyd, told the story of countless black men and women who have suffered at the hands of this type of brutality. But then, and I get what the defense has to do. So this is this is really not about that.
But that then sort of come back with a trope of, you know, angry black people. You know, white men with guns kneeling on the neck of a man are suddenly afraid of children, standing around watching them suffocate the life out of a black man. And they now come back and say that, you know, we feared for ourselves in that situation, a situation you created, by the way, by not listening to the crowd, who otherwise wouldn`t pay too much attention to the arrest of yet another black man until you made it something else.
And then, when you made it something else you now say to us, when the community presses back, Brian, and goes, wait a minute, you`re killing this man. Stop it, check his pulse, get your knee off his neck, and for Chauvin to sit there with his hands in his pocket demonstrates the arrogance of power that he thinks or that he believed he had over that black life at that moment. And that`s why the testimony today, probably more than anything else we hear coupled with those videos to set so much to this country about what we`ve lived for  years.
 The professor`s words indeed Michael remind me to give my quarterly reminder to our viewers to if they possibly can visit the lynching memorial and museum in Montgomery. It`s -- It is beyond powerful, and your life may be altered forever as a result of what you see there. What you learn there.
A break for us. Both of these guests thankfully have agreed to stay with us.
Coming up. Just when it seems like voter suppression is all the rage in parts of our country. Some good news on voting rights that I don`t mind saying comes from my home state today when we come right back.

 Phil Murphy, Governor of New Jersey signed a measure today expanding voting rights. It was passed by state lawmakers the same day Georgia`s governor codified new voting restrictions in his state. In keeping with Georgia`s richly deserved reputation for voter suppression. It includes new voter ID rules limits drop boxes and voting times and makes it a crime to give voters in line food or water.
Georgia`s election law now faces at least three lawsuits the latest filed by the ACLU and NACCP just today. Remaining with us are Professor Caroline Randall Williams and Michael Steele. Michael, I note you have written in the Bulwark an item under the headline, the state assault on voting rights hurts all of us. And I`m eager to hear you make your case because what I see so far is suppression aimed at democrats who are black, who elected Joe Biden, and by the way helped change the balance in the US Senate. So counselor make your case?
 Well, it is very much that and a whole lot more. This is about the suppression and in many cases the, you know, elimination of the opportunity or the incentive to vote in black communities like Atlanta and Detroit.
But even beyond that what republicans in Georgia, in Arizona, in Pennsylvania, in Maine and elsewhere, are seemingly looking past is that these laws will have the uninted consequence of limiting the access of their Very own base. Because when you restrict the timeframe on voting, when you say I`m sorry, we`re not going to put as many postal drop boxes available -- make available and communities, we`re going to cut back on vote by mail, which by the way, was how we orchestrated the successes that we had in  was using this vehicle knowing that a significant number of our base population can`t get to the polls on Election Day. They live in senior centers, they`re you know homebound or whatever the situation may be.
So what you`re going to see and you saw this in Georgia, this is why it`s so mind numbingly stupid because they watched it unfold right in front of them that limitation by President Trump saying don`t participate and vote by mail. And the base didn`t and everyone else did. And they lost three times, the presidency and two Senate seats. What do you think is going to happen in future elections, as you further restrict that opportunity for not just black voters to vote but every citizen to access the ballot box you lose, and deservedly so for being so stupid.
 I also know what is widely suspected to have been a hate crime that brought attention back to Georgia just in the last few days. And professor, one day we`re going to have you on this broadcast to talk about something hopeful and beautiful sadly this is not the night because this brings me to an attack captured on camera in New York, a vicious sidewalk beating of an older Asian woman made all the more difficult to watch.
And we`ve fuzzed it up here for good reason because of the inaction of those who witnessed at the inaction of those in the building some of whom we can see we don`t know their motives motivations or lack of them we know what we can see.
Caroline, when`s this going to ?
 The first word that comes to mind when you asked me that is I think the word Rome and I think about republic`s that fall. I haven`t -- I don`t know when this will . I think that if we figure this out if we learn something, if we learn enough fast enough to resolve this, then maybe it will  soon because it seems like it`s all coming to a bit of a head.
But what I will say I have Asian American, I have Japanese members of my chosen family, my godparents, my god brother, my godson are all Japanese and Japanese American people whose lives I ter as dearly as anybody alive that I have blood relation to.
And I feel like right now just all Americans of color we`ve got to figure out especially in the wake of that footage I just have to say all Americans of color we`ve got to figure out how to double down and come together because this country wasn`t built for us and this country is in a fight for its life to figure out if it wants to live up to the ideas behind its founding documents rather than the limitations of the men who wrote the founding documents.
And I think that we have a chance at that but I don`t -- I don`t know. I don`t know if we will, I don`t know how soon it will be over. I hope that it`s over peacefully and swiftly.
 We didn`t even get to the fact that a Georgia legislator was arrested for knocking on a door. All I know is your students are fortunate to be your students. Professor Caroline Randall Williams, Michael Steele, two fris of this broadcast during a fraught time in our history. Please come back. I thank you both.
Coming up for us after this next break with coronavirus cases back on the rise, we`ll meet one doctor who decided to take the effort to get those shots and arms into her own hands. You will want to see her story after this.

 The virus numbers just from today are shocking , new cases over  souls lost just today.  states across the country reporting a rise in hospitalizations now. But there`s some good news about two and a half million people a day are getting vaccinated. Tonight NBC News correspondent Rehema Ellis takes us inside a very personal effort to vaccinate Philadelphia`s black community.

 Dr. Ala Stanford became a pediatric surgeon to save lives but never imagined it would look like this. She`s opened a site that`s defied expectations distributing nearly , COVID vaccines in  days.
 it feels really good to treat people the way they deserve to be treated
 The Black Doctors COVID- Consortium a group of black healthcare professionals offer vaccines to those hardest hit first come first serve.
 Everybody`s good the second shot.
All we were trying to do was create access and barrier free services for those who don`t typically have it.
 Her mission began a year ago knocking on doors offering COVID tests.
: About one in five black women say they definitely will not get the vaccination.
 Honestly it was a struggle for me initially. I had to separate black Ala from doctor Ala.
 But there`s no vaccine hesitancy here and she`s a key reason why.
 Occasionally someone will stop and look me in the eyes and say if it was not for you so many more people would have lost their lives. One vision can save a life change the world.
 REHEMA ELLIS, NBC News, Philadelphia.

 Fantastic story tonight out of Philadelphia. Coming up for us an unremarkable day that turned remarkable in the space of exactly two seconds.

 Last thing before we go tonight, it was a gray damp, unremarkable spring day  years ago today in Washington. Ronald Reagan arrived at the unremarkable Washington Hilton where he delivered a very routine and unmemorable luncheon speech to the AFL-CIO. What we remember about that day happened as Ronald Reagan was exiting the hotel on the way to his limousine.
Shots fired, the limo sped off. They were on route to the White House one veteran Secret Service agent Jerry Parr who tackled Reagan to get them into the bulletproof car realize the President had been hit and was losing blood. They rerouted to GW hospital.
It wasn`t until years later we learned how close Reagan came. A disturbed young man named John Hinckley bled into the press pool. He shot Reagan in order to achieve fame to impress the actress Jodie Foster, the object of his obsession. Americans were glued to their televisions that day here now some of the NBC News coverage from that day.

 One hopeful note about the president. Nafziger said that as Mr. Reagan was being wheeled into surgery, he turned to his wife, he was fully conscious, turned to his wife, Mrs. Reagan and said honey, I forgot to duck.
And then as he entered the operating room, he said to the doctors there, please tell me you`re Republicans.Wallace, NBC News at the George Washington Medical Center.
 The attempt on Mr. Reagan`s life today took place in the street in front of a hotel as the cameras were rolling. So there`s a visual record of what happened. Here`s Roger Mudd.
 Very few presidential movements take place beyond the range of the press and the cameras these days. So this afternoon when the President emerged from the Washington Hilton Hotel virtually the entire event was recorded by television cameras.
The pictures are chilling. It begins with the Deputy Chief of Staff Mike Deaver and a few agents coming out of the hotel smiling ready to go and then suddenly there is a gunfire. The assailant is accosted by half a dozen lawman, Mike Deaver ducks. And down on the pavement is the presidential press secretary James Brady, the Secret Service agent Terence McCarthy, Metropolitan policemen, John Delahanty.
Suddenly there is Rick Ahearn, the chief advancement calling for a handkerchief, out of breath, Cotton`s mouth, not really knowing where the next gunshot will come from. This is the Secret Service agent collar being loosened.
Cameras recording every moment of it. Sirens filling the air around the hotel. This is James Brady, hit in the head. One shot, six shots fired in two seconds. Four of them found their mark.
 The coverage from that shocking day  years ago today. Our former colleague there Roger Mudd died just earlier this month. John Hinckley is living under supervised care. He is  years old.


 Well, good evening once again. Day  of the Biden administration. Tonight, newly released surveillance video showing what happened outside one of the spas that was targeted by the gunman in Georgia. This was from a business adjacent to one of the spas and Acworth northwest of Atlanta. It appears to show the moment the suspect entered the facility and then shortly afterwards, shows police arriving at the scene. Four people were killed at that location alone.
In Atlanta and across the country, there`s mounting outrage of course over the shooting rampage that took a total of eight lives including those of six Asian women. Tonight, people gathered to remember the victims and to call attention to the wave of violence targeting people of Asian descent.
Today, the president ordered U.S. flags on federal buildings lowered to half-staff through sunset Monday to mark the massacre. He and Vice President Harris will be in Atlanta tomorrow to meet with leaders of the city`s Asian American community.
Earlier today Atlanta police insisted the investigation is far from over.

 We are not done. We`re still working very diligently to ascertain all the facts. So, we can have a successful prosecution.
 Is the investigation into a possible hate crime -- is that still on the table?
 Nothing is off the table for our investigation.
 Is there any indication the suspect had visited those spas previously?
 It appears that he may have frequent those locations, yes. All we do know is that he did purchase the gun of the day of the incident.

 On that same line, the FBI is assisting local law enforcement with the investigation. This was interesting. Tonight, the FBI directorWray told NPR, "it does not appear that the motive was racially motivated." The suspect who is charged with eight counts of murder waived an arraignment scheduled for today. The killings have also unleashed an outpouring of anger in Washington, among other places. Today for the first time in three decades, the House held a hearing on anti-Asian violence and discrimination. The mood became tense after one lawmaker`s comments brought an angry response.

 We believe in justice, right? There`s an old sayings in Texas about, you know, find the all the rope in Texas and get a tall oak tree. You know, we take justice very seriously. And we ought to do that. Round up the bad guys.
My concern about this hearing is that it seems to want to venture into the policing of rhetoric in a free society. Now we`re talking about whether we`re talking about China, the Chi Comm , the Chinese Communist Party, whatever phrasing we want to use, and if some people are saying, hey, we think those guys are the bad guys. I think the Chinese Communist Party running the country, China, I think they`re the bad guys. And I think that they are harming people.
 I want to go back to something that Mr. Roy said earlier, your president and your party and your colleagues can talk about issues with any other country that you want. But you don`t have to do it by putting a bull`s eye on the back of Asian Americans across this country, on our grandparents, on our kids. This hearing was to address the hurt and pain of our community and to find solutions and we will not let you take our voice away from us.

 Now after that exchange, Congressman Roy, the rope and tree fellow from Texas later told NBC News that he had, "no apologies for his remarks."
Meanwhile, the federal investigation into the Capitol insurrection, let`s not forget as focusing more intensely on those rioters who carried out some of the most vicious assaults on police officers that we saw that day. As NBC News correspondent Tom Costello shows us the FBI has released new videos in hopes that the public can help identify those suspects and fair warning here. It`s violent and disturbing.

 More than two months since the attack on the Capitol, dramatic new video enhanced by the FBI of  suspects, wanting for what it calls some of the most egregious attacks on police officers that day. Among the videos and unknown suspect of trying to pull the gas mask off a police officer in full riot gear, the assailant isolated in photos and videos, more video of an attacker beating officers with a table leg and nails. This attacker is trying to smash his way through glass doors with a cattle prod. Suspect is spraying officers with a fire extinguisher and some type of orange chemical. Another assailant one of her hitting and punching officers here and older man breaks through barricade and charges police. The FBI asked him for the public`s help in identifying all of the attackers. The FBI has already arrested two suspects for assault on Capitol Officer Brian Sicknick, who later died of unknown causes. A D.C. grand jury has indicted both men on  counts.

 Tom Costello with that report. As the White House continues its campaign to get all Americans vaccinated, the President today announced that we`re about to hit his goal of  million vaccines in the first  days of his administration.

 Tomorrow,  days into our administration, we will have met my goal of ministering  million shots to our fellow Americans. In the last week we`ve seen increases the number of cases in several states. Scientists have made clear that things may get worse as new variants of this virus spread. Getting vaccinated is the best thing we can do to fight back against these variants.

 President will now have more help in his plan to carry out these next vaccination goals as well as his plans to strengthen Obamacare. Today by the narrowest margin /, the Senate confirmed Xavier Becerra to lead the Department of Health and Human Services.
 The Rise and Fall of the Secret Service, which we`re looking forward to coming out May . And Kurt Bardella joins us, former spokesperson for the House Oversight Committee, a former Republican who has switch since - switched and join the Democratic Party, he`s also a contributor to both USA today and the LA Times.
Peter Baker, because of your beat, I would like to begin with you, Biden`s approach, along with his vice president to these Atlanta murders is altogether different for those who have been paying attention, these last four to five years, talk about his effort, something he feels genuinely to fill the empathy gap and go down there and have a conversation about this tragedy?
 Well, that`s right. Look, this is a president who is doing what presidents usually do, right, which is to try to bring people together in moments of turmoil and tunnel like this, rather than try to divide them. You know, President Trump, of course, obviously played to racial divisions and was somebody who ted to stir the pot rather than pull people together, President Biden came to office on a promise to unite on a promise to appeal to, you know, better higher virtues. And this is I think, an example of that. He wants to go to Atlanta to demonstrate his concern over the fears that many Asian Americans have given the spike in hate expressions and violent assaults that have experienced in the last number of years, particularly in the last year since the COVID virus, which of course, the last president used, you know, Asian influenced terms to describe, which a lot of people think actually stirred entity rather than, you know, bring people together.
 Kurt Bardella, your piece in the LA Times about the murders in Atlanta was very direct. You said Trump and the GOP put a bull`s-eye on the backs of Asian Americans today. Kevin McCarthy was asked about his own past comments. We`ll play his reply here.

 Do you regret using terms like Chinese coronavirus, and --
 I would wait to see why the shooter did what he does. But if the virus came from China, and I think the knowledge we had at the time and exactly that I don`t think people from the standpoint to go after any Asian from any shape or form and I condemn every action to that.

 So, Kurt, there`s your Republican leader in the House, who for the record, voted on the side of the insurrection, as we`ve yet to hear from Mitch McConnell at all over in the Senate side on this. The question to you is, are Republicans unable or unwilling to recognize harm from the words they`ve used?
 Well, Brian, they`re unwilling. And the best example of that was today, when Chip Roy at a hearing about violence and hate crimes against Asian Americans thought that that was the appropriate time to quote Toby Keith songs -- Toby Keith by the way is from Oklahoma, not Texas, but be that as it may, to quote Toby Keith lyrics and use the image of lynching and it just shows the ignorance of Republicans about history. Chinese Americans, Los Angeles were the target of one of the biggest lynching in United States history in the s to use that type of imagery, and that type of rhetoric, rope and trees, at a hearing convene to talk about hate crimes, and then to not even apologize for it, but to double down on it when confronted about it after the hearing. It just tells that Republicans they`re not incapable of understanding their rhetoric. They don`t care. They don`t value people who aren`t white, they have made a conscious decision time and again, to use inflammatory rhetoric like Chinese virus, and Kung Fu, to talk about something that has created a situation where people are actively committing hate crimes against Asian Americans, if the situation in Atlanta had never happened, it wouldn`t change the fact that there`s been % increase in hate crimes against the AAPI community since March of . It wouldn`t change the fact that just in the last few weeks, we`ve had people attacked on the streets in New York, people spit on and call derogatory comments while eating in restaurants outside in the Bay Area. We have seen time after time incident after incident of hate crimes and hateful rhetoric targeting Asian Americans and it is % driven by the rhetoric of the Republican Party.
 Indeed, absent the Atlanta violence, there was still need for the hearing that was held today. Carol Leonnig, I want to take advantage of your years of reporting on and around law enforcement. How does law enforcement deal with the fact that there is enormous public pressure based on everything we can see about these murders, to name this a hate crime while they`re not comfortable with it yet hitting that mark?
 I think what is a problem for law enforcement is a certain amount of literalness in their criminal statements of fact. So this with -- this perpetrator, this murderer, alleged murderer alleges that his motive was an addiction. And he did buy a gun in the midst of a, you know, falling a part of his life, his family, kicking him out of the house. And he said that his shooting was basically because of this addiction that he had to these spas that he visited, and he was taking out his violent rage against them. Well, that`s all very literal and fine, but the truth is that the majority of the people killed were Asian women. And you`ve got to have a connection between, you know, viewing those lives as less valuable to this particular perpetrator and hate crimes.
Why did he show up at something titled young Asian massage? Yes, he probably did frequent those or frequent something like it. But it`s the challenge of the law enforcement to stick to the facts, but also see the bigger picture.
And I think I would agree to one element of what the FBI Director said,Wray. It doesn`t appear to be racially motivated at this moment. But let`s see what the rest of the facts are. Sometimes investigations take a little while, and we all should be patient. But it is a wonderful opportunity to discuss the hatred that lots of political leaders have sown. And I think as Peter and also Kurt make so clear, these political leaders have worked this bone and it has been to their benefit. President Trump showed them the way calling something and blaming something on China was very effective. It took it away from having to actually assess his own handling of the coronavirus because in a xenophobic way he could decide to blame some country where a lot of Asians lived. And it`s it has worked like a charm in terms of deflecting a lot of the responsibility. Blaming is a great political tool. And unfortunately, as Grace Meng pointed out, it also puts a bull`s-eye on people. There`s a reason why a man showed up with an assault rifle at a pizza shop. He was urged by Republican conspiracy theorists to believe the Democrats had, you know, a pedophilia ring in the basement of this pizza shop. So the things have a weird through line that I think we need to keep in mind.
 Indeed, and there was pressure on the left today on social media at the news media wondering why this wasn`t branded the Trump virus from the start.
Peter Baker, let`s rely on a broad area of your reporting for years, the nation formerly known as the Soviet Union, now Russia here is a sampling of the interplay just in the last  hours between Putin and Biden.

 You know, Vladimir Putin, you think he`s a killer?
 I do.
 So what price must he pay?
 The price he`s going to pay? Well you`ll see shortly.
 And what would my answer be? I would tell him -- I wish you good health. I am saying it without irony or jokes.

 Peter, is it because in recent years, we are so not used to a president, not praising the virility and strength of the Russian leader that we`ve forgotten. What, "normal relations" between Putin and an American president look like?
 Yeah, it`s interesting. The phrase I do is doing a lot of work there, right? This is not exactly a full throated condemnation by President Biden. But it`s so in contrast with President Trump, who, in fact, when asked if Putin was a killer, basically exonerated Putin. Well, which country isn`t were killers here to, you know, and made us equivalent to Putin`s Russia back when he was asked about it. So I think that even that small snippet from President Biden, even that relatively modest, mild comment was seen as a sea change. But in fact, it`s still just words at this point, you know, Russian media tonight is lapping it up. They love it. They`re going after Biden, and making it a big, you know, to do that`s helpful to Putin in his domestic audience, which he`s having trouble in his own country. And I think it`s good from his point of view, to have an enemy to focus on Biden, in the United States has always been a convenient enemy. And his comment there, I wish him good health, of course, is meant to pick up on Trump`s line from last fall about Biden`s age and whether about Biden, in fact, is, you know, lost a step or not. And when he says I say it without irony, if you listen to it, and Russian, there`s irony in his tone, he definitely means that as a jab. Again, this is all talk. So far, the Biden administration has only taken relatively modest steps in terms of sanctions sanctioning Russians, who aren`t likely to come here and don`t have assets here. They say there may be more to come. And we`ll have to watch and see what that is. And whether that genuinely takes the pressure on Russia up from where it had been under Trump, who seemed to be prioritizing being fris with Vladimir Putin.
 Hey, Kurt, let`s keep it in the world of politics. GOP has been going culture wars of late, but do you think they see genuine traction and this ongoing humanitarian crisis at the southern border?
 Well, it`s kind of back to the future here, Brian, we saw for the better part of the last decade, the Republican Party constantly used the issue of immigration and the border as their primary issue to talk about. Remember when Eric Cantor, the then House Majority Leader lost his seat, and one of the shocking midterm developments of the  cycle, he lost to a guy named Dave Brat who ran solely on the issue of immigration. This has been at the heart of the Republican Party orthodoxy for so long. And when they have nothing else to talk about, and when things aren`t going their way, oftentimes they`ve returned to the issue of immigration. That was the issue that propelled Donald Trump the nomination in first place, the whole builds the wall, all immigrants are drug dealers can go coming here from Mexico to kill us all. And they`re going back to that again.
And really what we`ve seen over time is their messaging on immigration is code for racism. It is just another frontier on their effort to attack people that aren`t white. This time when it comes to the border, it`s that white people have to fear brown people, it`s that they have to worry about them being drug dealers and cartels and gang members that are going to come in and perpetrate violence and mayhem on them. It has nothing to do with the humanitarian elements of this, which are very real. It has to do with them still trying to use this issue and use people of color to scare white people into voting for them. And this is the playbook that we`ve seen so often. And they`re going back to it now because they can`t talk about successes. They can`t talk about a track record that`s done anything positive for the American people. They can`t talk about COVID-, , people were dead under their watch. They can`t talk about a booming economy. The economy fell apart on their watch. So what did they do? They go back to culture wars, and this time it`s immigration but it`s really racism.
 And the  from Carol Leonnig, it was unprecedented. The media presentation by the FBI today still looking for these / suspects that again, we`re reminded the idea of American sacking their own capital was pretty unprecedented at the time.
 Absolutely. You know these videos I have to say, Brian, they work. People who are neighbors and fris, this is tried and true. Put out the videos and somebody is going to call that  number. It happened actually quite a bit this summer. You may remember the FBI put out pictures and videos of people who are desecrating federal monument. But you know, I`m reminded that when I watch these videos, I`m thinking of the statement that was released by George Bush or made public today actually, he said it in February as part of a presentation. But in this remark, he said basically watching the seas on the Capitol made him sick to his stomach. And some of these videos do that for me now.
 Yeah, in fact, I want to play that later in the hour. I can`t thank our big three enough for helping along our conversation tonight, Peter Baker, Carol Leonnig and Kurt Bardella, great thanks.
Coming up for us, as our country takes on two stubborn deadly viruses at the same time, one medical the other societal, we`ll talk to two of our favorite guests about beating them both on how.
And later, how would -- why would anyone shoot down the idea of a shot in the arm? We`ll ask some of the vaccine deniers about their reasoning for not getting it, all of it as the  is just getting underway on a Thursday night.


 You can say whatever you want on the First Amment. You can say racist stupid stuff if you want. But I`m asking you to please stop using racist terms like Kung Flu, Wuhan virus or other ethnic identifiers in describing this virus. I am not a virus. And when you say things like that, it hurts the Asian American community.

 Democratic Congressman Ted Lieu of California, former guest on this broadcast during today`s anti-Asian discrimination hearing. It`s a lot to talk about and back with us to do that tonight, Baratunde Thurston, author, activist, comedian, former producer for The Daily Show with Trevor Noah, these days the host of the podcast How To Citizen. And Mark McKinnon`s back with us, former adviser to both George W. Bush and John McCain. He`s now one of the co-hosts thankfully of the Circus on Showtime.
Gentlemen, good evening, and welcome to you both. Baratunde, at a hearing on combating hate and violence just so we get this right, congressman from Texas equates justice and lynching. In real time, out loud, we can hear him say it. It would indicate to me we`re not all on the same page. Would you like to take a whack at how much work there remains to go in ?
 Yes, Brian. We`re not all on the same page. And clearly Representative Roy`s mask was not always on his face. He was sloppy in more ways than one. It`s grotesque to cite lynching as evidence of justice. It is inflicting more pain to cite a racialized form of violence in a hearing designed to honor acknowledge the pain of a community subject to racial violence. If there is a resource that people would remember right now, check out stop AAPI hate.org. This is an organization which has taken it upon itself to document some of the pain, the trauma, the struggles of the community of members of Asian descent in the U.S., for the past year, since the President of United States unleashed a fuselage of ugly upon them by weaponizing and racializing, a global pandemic. And as so many said today, putting a target on the backs of some of our own people here in this country. It`s ugly, it`s sick, it`s sad.
And if I would just add, I know what it feels like as a black American to be excluded, to be overlooked, to be devalued by law enforcement others. And so my own heart is open and out for my fellow Americans who are suffering right now. You are not alone.
 Mark McKinnon that leads me to ask you, what has become of us? And because we are in a political realm, I have to ask the follow up. How much of what has become of us is because of Republican actions and rhetoric?
 Well, I mean, today, Roy`s comments, were a great example of just how low Republicans have gone just they`re clawing their way to the bottom. It`s just -- the notion that somebody would go to a hearing that was being held to raise the issues of racial insensitivity racism across America, and then not only being sort of insensitive to the idea of that hearing, but to turn it around and start defing racist practices in American history is, it`s embarrassing, it`s humiliating, and it`s indefensible. And, you know, it`s just -- I work for a guy who, you know, talks about compassionate conservatism. And for the life of me, Brian, I can`t find the compassion and conservatism in Republican politics anymore. There is not.
 Hey, Mark as a quasar, Republican whisperer on broadcast like this one, explained to me why in the last seven to  days, all we hear about now is Communist China. I`m old enough to remember the Cold War. I remember that turn. It went away. It went into a long power save slumber mode. It`s back. I don`t go a day without hearing about Communist China. Where is that from?
 Well, it comes from the same treasure chest as socialism, the socialism trope that the Republicans tried to use against Joe Biden, Joe Biden famously said, do I look like a socialist? No, he`s not. That`s why he got elected. But the China trip, that something that Chip Roy talked about today, which, again, to me, they`re just trying to flip the deck. They`re saying no, we weren`t talking about the China virus. That`s not a racist thing. What we`re really talking about is the Chinese Communist Party. Oh, there`s got to be a Boogeyman for Republicans. There`s got to be somebody who`s scared. And this is page one of Trump`s Republican playbook, right, which is, is others out there coming across our borders, changing our way of life. And I`m here to def the American way of life. But you know, leave it to the Democrats. We`re going to turn this into you know, you know, an arm of the Chinese Communist government.
 Well, as both you gentlemen know, around here, we`d like to be a viewers` guide and preview what people are going to hear more of in the coming days, I would call it How To Citizen but that title is taken. Our conversation with both of these gentlemen will continue after a short break.
Coming up, he once praised efforts to bring undocumented immigrants out of the shadows. And now Mark`s former boss is doubling down on that message. We`ll talk about him and that right after this.


 There needs to be an overhaul. Which means that we need to get politics out of the system and get sober minded people focusing on, A, what`s best for our economy, B, what`s best for our country. Rather than ignore the situation. I think we got to address it. And I do believe there needs to be a path to citizenship.

 That is a view not widely held by today`s Republican Party. The House today passed a new immigration bill that includes a pathway to citizenship. Remember that quaint phrase for millions of dreamers among us, just nine Republicans voted in favor, many pointing to the influx of migrants at the southern border.

 Part of dealing with the problem is to first admit there`s a problem. And President Biden doesn`t even want to acknowledge it. And then on the heels of this border crisis that is going on right now. There`s a bill on the House floor to create amnesty, to create a bigger magnet saying come to the southern border.

 Still with us Baratunde Thurston and Mark McKinnon. And Mark, to quote the great Ron Popeil, but wait there`s more. I want to play you a little bit more of George W. Bush. This was on the subject of and we haven`t heard this, his reaction to /.

 I was disgusted. I can`t remember what I was doing. But I remember feeling a sense of, I was sick to my stomach and to see our nation`s capital being stormed by hostile forces. And it really disturbed me to the point where I did put out a statement and I`m still disturbed when I think about it.
 Was the election stolen or not?
 No.

 So Mark, that right. There is how people talk and it used to be how Republicans talked. How many Republicans does he represent in those two statements first on immigration, second on /, if he looks around how many men and women are behind him and saying we`re right there with your boss?
 Not enough. That`s the problem. Brian. Had tip to Evan Smith texture beaming forgetting former president of the art studio and in the TV studio because we love to hear him especially on important issues like this.
Brian in  and earlier when he`s running for governor reelect -- reelection for governor in Texas, he drew people like me, indepents, and Democrats across the bridge become Republicans because of his message about compassionate conservatism, particularly on issues like immigration, he was very immigration frily, and try -- and was very, very strong about immigration reform that was needed in this country and ran on that , despite a lot of Republicans saying that he shouldn`t do it. He said, it`s the right thing to do. And we`re going to do it and he fought his entire presidency. Unfortunately, the timing was never right. / happened and things didn`t happen.
I look back on it now. And it`s been almost a quarter of a century since President Bush tried to push his reforms. And we`re still fighting about it now. But the problem for Republicans is that now there`s no but I mean, Reagan provided amnesty for  million Americans, Bush says it should be path to citizenship, but they`re not enough of those kind of Republicans anymore.
And it is a clear to Biden now, because Republicans say we don`t want anybody crossing the border. Democrats are more like our historical motion of saying, you know, bring us your huddled masses yearning to be free.
 Baratunde a on the subject of immigration, our fri Eugene Robinson was on last night and I neglected to quote the headline from his most recent column, which in its simplicity, kind of bowled me over going big on the border, will neutralize Republicans line of attack.
Eugene is making the simple point that Biden and yes, he`s got a lot on his plate, can go big, can react in a big way, fly down there, mobilize the US military, and so on, and it is in Biden`s hands. It came with the job. How would you critique the job they`ve done so far in this, what is it,  days without a transition coming into office?
 First, I need to acknowledge the former president George H.W. Bush, I`m not a member of this Americans fan club. I will acknowledge the decency, the basic humanity and the factual basis of his comments. And it is sad that that is worth mentioning, and lauding.
But I also remember the same George H.W. Bush, sorry, George W. Bush, who put us into the Iraq War and the Afghanistan situation, which we still have not extricated ourselves from and helped bankrupt us and put us in a very tight spot, making nationalism and racism more palatable and attractive to the modern day Republican Party. But I can`t let that go unremarked.
As for what`s going on with the border and with immigration, like I am pro treating human beings, as human beings. And I do not pret that what is happening at our border is a simple fix, either through hateful rhetoric, or the magic waving of some sort of lawn.
I am personally impressed and astounded that people are leaving their countries to walk through treacherous miles of gang runs territory, their economies are wrecked. Climate change is making things worse. And so I don`t think anyone`s coming here because they think it`s actually that great. They`re leaving a place of their own, that isn`t doing so well.
It`s where I give the Biden administration, early partial credit, it`s worth acknowledging that part of this problem will be solved when the countries of Latin America are doing better and to the extent that we can engage with them on helping the situation at home, be more hospitable, that can relieve some of the pressure on our border.
But I distinguish that from what was happening from the people who are already here, contributing to our economy, living by the rules, paying taxes, they deserve a pathway to become full members of society.
 Baratunde, thank you for all of that to your first point I`ve checked turns out it wasn`t Iraqis knocking those buildings down on  after all. Mark McKinnon, Baratunde Thurston, gentlemen, let`s do this again. Good to see you both. Were in your debt for coming on.
Coming up for us, no matter what the doctors we talked to say. There are still a whole lot of Americans who still insist the vaccine. However, a medical miracle is not for them. Coming up, we`ll hear from both sides.

 Well, this is something. Tonight  percent of Americans have received at least one dose of the coronavirus vaccine.  percent of American adults have now been fully vaccinated. Even as the administration works to quicken the pace of this, the issue of vaccine skepticism, specifically among Republicans subset, especially Republican males and a lot of them Trumpers poses a difficult challenge.
NBC News correspondent Alison Barber joins us from Jackson, Mississippi with more tonight. And Ellison, I know you have been sampling opinion there on this vaccine. What have you found?
 Hey, Brian, yes, we have -- we went kind of all over the eastern part of the state to try and get a sense of what people are thinking here. Look, vaccine hesitancy has dropped in the weeks and months since the first COVID- vaccine was authorized with emergency approval in the United States.
So there are still pockets of skepticism nationwide. One thing that we are seeing in polls and continue to see in more recent polls is that vaccine skepticism is stronger and holding steady among one group in particular, and that is Republicans.
So we decided to head to one of the reddest counties in Mississippi, Smith County and then travel east to try and get a sense of what people think about COVID vaccines. Listen here.

 Do you plan to get vaccinated?
 No, ma`am.
 How come?
 Because good old country boy. And I drink from water. I don`t need it.
 I made up my mind  years ago, never to get another flu shot.
 OK. So flu shot, no COVID vaccine --
 No.
 -- not the vaccine.
 It`s a flu. It ain`t a COVID. It`s a flu.
 I`ve just got questions. And I don`t feel like my questions have been answered. We have news media analysts to say one thing and then we have another outlet that says completely the opposite. And you don`t really know the truth in the matter anymore.
 I just ain`t never got no flu shots. I ain`t plan on getting no COVID- shot and I wouldn`t be wearing this him but you got to mainly affect the people just got low immune system so I just like take some vitamins and move on.
 A lot of people think they`re padded and what`s really going down, you know, there -- as far as they`re saying everybody`s fine with it. A lot of people are scared that even though they`re saying they`re fine they`re really not.

 About  percent of Mississippians have been fully vaccinated as of this week. This week, the state also decided to expand vaccine eligibility and open it up to anyone living or working in the state over the age of . Brian.
 Ellison, thank you and your crew for your reporting. It`s important everyone needs to hear it. It`s a part of our world and a part of this very compelling story. Ellison Barber for us tonight.
And now joining our conversation is Dr. Vin Gupta, a critical care pulmonologist out in Seattle who specializes in exactly this. He`s also on the faculty of the University of Washington Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation.
Well, Doc, you heard the voices of those Americans in the state of Mississippi. We all have to live together in this one country we`ve been given, what do we do about what we just heard?
 Brian, I think there`s two things up front number one, good evening, by the way, number one, I think there`s just confusion on what these vaccines are do extremely well, regardless of the variant. And essentially everywhere in the world. And they keep will keep you out of intensive care.
That is the critical piece here that we`ve lost. When we`ve communicated about vaccine effectiveness. We delve too much into the vaccine -- effectiveness percentages and numbers that are confusing to people. They`re frankly, confusing to me, when the bottom line here is whether you`re talking about J&J or AstraZeneca, or Pfizer, or Moderna, they all are  percent effective, and those who`ve received them in keeping those individuals out of the hospital, and out of intensive care and avoiding death. That`s all that matters.
Number two, I would say to your point and from Allison`s reporting there, if that doesn`t reach people, how do you reach those people. And that`s where I think we need to introduce some friction into the system. Once vaccines are broadly available, Brian, we need to make -- we need to take a page out of what other countries are doing to some degree and say, you know what, the vaccine is available, it`s safe, it`s very effective. If you`re not going to get it and you want to go on a flight or you want to go out to dine or you want to go out to the ballpark, you`re going to have to show us a negative COVID- test. And you`re going to have to mask.
We`re going to have to introduce some friction here premise on some degree of personal responsibility at that point. Otherwise, we`re not going to reach where we need to reach which is herd immunity, hopefully  to  percent of the country`s going to be willing to accept the vaccine. But if we don`t get there, we`re in a really tenuous balance.
 All goes back to the pictures of Elvis getting the Salk vaccine. We had the head of the Ad Council on this broadcast talking about their campaign. I think that point you just mentioned is when they have to be on the air with a killer public service campaign along those same lines. Couldn`t agree more.
Dr. Gupta has agreed to stay with us just during this break. When we come back, he`ll explain why he says our path to normalcy. And that`s the goal remember, is tenuous may look at times a bit more like a minefield.


 We now have enough vaccine available for all American adults by May .

 That is a veteran of public health speaking positive news from the HHS Chief Science Officer. But the world is still fighting against COVID variance and the potential for another surge of infections. Dr. Gupta remains with us for this last conversation segment.
And Doctor, once and for all, it`s a moving target. So I`m sure we`ll talk about this in coming days. What do people need, especially among the community lucky enough to be vaccinated? What do people need to know about the various?
 Well, the various posts that thread Brian and we are in a really tenuous spot. I feel complacency setting in amongst all of us. We`re frankly retired one of vacation plan we get it. We need to hang in for a few more months because we`re extremely vulnerable right now. , cases a day still , to  deaths a day. Paris ICU`s are now full. Italy`s locking down, Ontario`s thinking about doing something similar.
We are surrounded by chaos and crisis from this virus. We are not immune to it. The most likely scenario is that we come out of it, and that we`re going to be the one the first countries to actually come out of this pandemic after having experienced the worst crisis possible.
But that`s not a foregone conclusion. warm weather, increased vaccine uptake are our fris right now. And that`s great that we`re seeing an increase in vaccine confidence. What`s not good as the variants, more transmissible and what`s also -- what`s terrible is bad public policy.
Governor`s following the lead of the governor of Texas, loosening mask mandates for no good reason, too soon. We are in a very tenuous position here right now, we could lose the  pricer, which is normalcy by July . If we do not keep our eye on the prize, which is vigilance until most of us have the vaccine.
 To your point, a fri of mine in London says they`re over there looking at our Spring Breakers from Padre Island to Lauderdale wondering what has gotten into us and what we don`t understand about this.
 Well, and thank you for reminding me. What a disappointing a lack of calling or by the -- by university presidents across the country to say that their students should not be going on spring break. If you`re about to embark on spring break and you`re a college student, please think again twice. Because I`ve seen  year olds pass on the virus on unwittingly to vulnerable elderly family members or their loved ones.
This is serious. University presidents and other leaders should be messaging in strong terms that their students should not be traveling right now. Just a few months, Brian, it`s just a few months, otherwise we fall by the way of Italy and France. It`s very tenuous, the position we`re in right now.
 Dr. Vin Gupta has been our guest again tonight. Doctor, thank you for your time and for taking our questions and for the advice you`re dispensing as important as it is. Coming up for us. Tonight`s reminder that words have consequences right after this.

 Last thing before we go tonight. The sad shrines that have come to life outside local businesses in the Atlanta metro area to mark the senseless twisted and tragic loss of life and the toll on innocent Asian Americans apparently killed for showing up at work and going about their lives as a great southerner one said trying to make a living and doing the best they can.
While the election may be over, the folks over at the Lincoln project put together a video compilation with an unmistakable message that words matter.

 Spring of deadly shootings at massage parlors in the Atlanta area could be linked to a wave of attacks against Asian Americans.
 Chinese virus. Kung flu. Kung fu.
 The disturbing surge of racist attacks against Asian Americans.
 The Chinese flu. The Chinese virus. China viruses.
 And hate crimes surged by  percent across  cities in .
 The China virus. The China flu.
 a man spit not once but three times in the direction of a -year-old Asian American woman and her baby calling them quote, the Chinese virus.
 The Chinese virus.

 Good evening, Rachel.
 p.m. hour on the baby boom. We were way ahead for a long time, but you have -- you guys, you`ve done it. You`re way out there. You got it.
 We really, it`s all from the coach really. I`ll take credit for almost all of it. Pep talk, you know.
 Rachel, that is the first thing you`ve said to me that I do not believe.

 You`re a wise, wise man, .
 And we will leave it there, Rachel.
 Yes, we shall.
 Thank you, Rachel.
 Well, tonight in his first primetime address to the nation, President Joe Biden announced that everyone in this country age  and above will be able to receive the coronavirus vaccine by May st. May st, that`s it. You will have your appointment by May st if not already have the vaccine in your arm.
President Biden said this goal is to allow people to be able -- his goal is to allow people to be able to gather in small groups on July th to celebrate our indepence and to celebrate our indepence from the coronavirus.
Today was the triumphant high point of the Biden presidency so far with House Speaker Nancy Pelosi delivering the Biden COVID relief bill to the White House for the president`s signature one day earlier than expected, signing the bill into law today means relief checks of $, could be flowing into people`s accounts as early as this week.

 People can expect to start seeing direct deposits hit their bank accounts as early as this week.

 President Biden stepped up to the microphone in the East Room of the White House tonight to tell Americans what they will be getting from the COVID relief bill and when they will be getting their vaccinations. But he began with what we have lost.

 I`ve told you before I carry a card in my pocket with the number of Americans who have died from COVID to date. It`s on the back of my schedule. As of now total deaths in America, ,. That`s more deaths than in World War I, World War II, the Vietnam War, and / combined.

 President Biden described the progress the Biden-Harris administration has made on vaccinations.

 When I took office  days ago, only  percent of Americans after months, only  percent of those over the age of  had gotten their first vaccination. Today, that number is  percent. Just  percent of Americans over the age of   days ago had gotten their first shot. Today, that number is well over  percent.
I said I inted to get  million shots in people`s arms in my first  days in office. Tonight, I can say we`re not only going to meet that goal, we`re going to beat that goal because we`re actually on track to reach this goal of  million shots in arms on my th day in office. No other country in the world has done this.

 Tonight, President Biden made a few promises on vaccinations.

 All adult Americans will be eligible to get a vaccine no later than May .

 The president described the mobilization that he is organizing to get that vaccine into people`s arms.

 We`re mobilizing thousands of vaccinators to put the vaccine in one`s arm, calling active duty military, FEMA, retired doctors and nurses, administrators and those to administer the shots. And we`ve been creating more places to get the shots. We`ve made it possible for you to get a vaccine in nearly anyone of , pharmacies across the country just like you get your flu shot.
We`re also working with governors and mayors in red states and blue states to setup and support nearly  federally supported vaccination centers that administers hundreds of thousands of shots per day. You can drive up to a stadium or a large parking lot, get your shot and never leave your car and drive home in less than an hour.
We`ve been sing vaccines to hundreds of community health centers all across America located in underserved areas. And we`ve been deploying and we will deploy more mobile vehicles and pop up clinics to meet you where you live so those who are least able to get the vaccine are able to get it.

 President Biden gave a specific date to look forward to when we are all fully vaccinated and ready to gather in small celebrations once again.

 If we do all this, if we do our part, if we do this together, by July th, there`s a good chance you, your families and fris will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and have a cookout or a barbecue and celebrate indepence day. That doesn`t mean large events with lots of people together, but it does mean small groups will be able to get together.
After this long, hard year that will make this Indepence Day something truly special, where we not only mark our indepence as a nation, but we begin to mark our indepence from this virus. But to get there we can`t let our guard down. This fight is far from over. As I told the woman from Pennsylvania, I`ll tell you the truth. On July th with your loved ones is the goal.

 Joining us now John Heilemann,  national affairs analyst and host of the "Hell and High-Water Podcast" from "The Recount". Also, with us, Jennifer Palmieri, former communications director of the Obama White House. Both are co-hosts of Showtime`s "The Circus."
And, John, it`s a moment like I`ve never seen before. This was a victorious moment in this presidency  days in, giant legislative achievement. The president addresses the nation, but he begins with the sadness of what we`ve lost. He delivers optimism for where we can get to but cautions us about the fear, we have to maintain of how to hold our own personal health in a safe space as we move forward through this coronavirus plague.
It was an amazing range of notes that he was delivering there.this continued effort to keep his presidency on course, keep us on course in dealing with this virus.
 Yeah, that`s right, . I think there`s -- people underestimate Joe Biden at their peril I think, and I think that is part of what this first  days of the administration has shown just as his campaign showed the same thing. He comes -- he has extraordinary -- he`s not like a politician who has -- like he`s not a five-tool player, right?
He doesn`t have all the skills, but the skills he has the temperament he has are just about perfect bill for this moment. And his mastery of the legislative process, his personal experience, everything people understand about his acquaintance, his deep, sad acquaintance with profound grief, the empathy that`s brought out in him, and the fact that I think he understood something that Donald Trump never understood which was that the country wants to be called to sacrifice, wants this notion of him striking that tone again even now as it seems like victory is maybe in sight with the coronavirus, saying again that I want to have the country on a war footing.
It was the one time in all of  that Donald Trump did well on COVID for about three days when he said he wanted to be a wartime president. And I think Biden understands you cannot give up this fight too soon, victory has to be total, and that tempered, measured, cautious optimism and realism as he kept telling people tonight telling people the truth even if the truth is not happy talk, that that is the path which is an extraordinary position of political strength.
 Jennifer, you`ve been in a White House approaching big days like this. It turns out the bill signing was a day sooner than they expected. And these bill signings as you know, and you participated in are highly choreographed and planned and yet this one was rushed by  hours so that that money could move quicker into people`s direct deposit accounts.
And then you`ve got this speech to prepare tonight and the notes to decide to hit in this speech tonight. What is it like for the West Wing going into this speech tonight?
 Yeah, they were planning on having a big ceremony tomorrow with leaders from the hill and everyone coming down. And that`s something you put a lot of time and effort into and you have to decide. I think the decision was we can`t have him give a speech about a bill he has received and has not signed. We`ve got to get relief going as quick leas possible, so made a decision to do that.
And you really have to nail this speech. And what I found -- what I love to look for in these presidential addressers is what is the story of America that the president is trying to tell us, right? That is something that speechwriters have, you know, at the forefront of their mind. There`s this sort of deliverables you have to tick through, but it eclipses the bigger story.
And I think Biden is -- he went through things the administration had done, but he said America is leading this, right? We are vaccinating more people than anywhere in the world. We`re no longer leading in deaths. We`re leading in vaccinations.
And only America could do this, and we did this together. It`s a very far cry from Donald Trump . He`s making things like he`s restoring America`s pride, patriotism and having this victory, you know, not quite won yet but we`re on the path to defeating the virus -- America`s victory and trying to drain politics out of this.
I see him in so many ways in a usually relatively subtle try to take down the heat when it comes to partisanship, and I think this is something in terms of defeating the virus he wants America to think they did, we did it together. It`s not something Joe Biden did work.
 John, one of the things in the speech I like the best and this is Biden note. This is note I think he among our politicians the best at delivering is the note of humility. And he`s rattling off statistics about how great his administration has done with vaccines and vaccinations and how much better it was than the first vaccinations run by the Trump administration.
And yet he says at the same time if we make mistakes in delivering the COVID relief bill, if there are aspects of this that don`t work, I will tell you. He`s anticipating the possibility that what he`s trying to do won`t work perfectly, that he can make mistakes at various stages of this there are things that won`t work.
And he`ll admit that, and he`s telling you up front humbly that this might not be perfect, everything I`m describing to you.
 Yeah, . That`s a guy who`s been around the block a few times, right? Someone who has seen their -- has their share of battle scars, someone who lived through eight years in the Obama administration where things like the Affordable Care Act, the Obamacare website was such a problem.
He`s learned I think Joe Biden over these many years in the Senate and White House, he`s learned to under promise and overdeliver. And he`s also learned to set those expectations in the way you`re talking about it.
And finally, the other thing Jennifer just said a second ago which I think is so true is this notion of trying to part and parcel of leaching the politics out of things, turning the temperature down is to focus on his competence and to try to focus on very readily achievable metrics and markers, things that the administration, it feels very confident they`ll be able to deliver so that step by step he grows the country`s confidence, that grows his political leverage. And it also without ever mentioning Donald Trump strikes the most vivid possible contrast with the most incompetent administration in history.
 Jennifer, I`m going to read you some polling numbers that I have to read them out loud to believe them because I`ve never seen anything like this --  percent, CBS polled  percent approve of the COVID relief package,  percent. Jennifer, this is a gigantically complex bill. It`s literally the biggest bill Democrats have ever passed any Democratic president has ever signed.
The public in arriving at that  percent approval number has to be basically exting some amount of trust to Joe Biden because they haven`t read all  pages of that bill.
 Right. They don`t know the details of what`s in it. They know that they were told repeatedly from economists, administration officials across the board the biggest mistake we can make is to go too small and the public put their faith in Joe Biden we needed to go big and they supported that. And they know there`s going to be actual checks in the mail soon that`s going to help relieve some of the pressures with their families. So, you know, that is the good news.
I lived through the Obama administration where we passed a stimulus bill, you know, part of the Recovery Act very early on in February of . But the problem -- the political problem that developed was people didn`t -- the economy did not improve dramatically. It was like a constant battle of us telling the public if we had not passed that recovery bill things would be worse than they are. Not is not a message you can sell.
And so, I think what going forward with the administration is going to do is show the economy is getting better and the Recovery Act is -- the rescue plan is the reason why.
 Jennifer Palmieri, John Heilemann, thank you very much for joining us tonight, starting us off. And thank you very much for observing the  rule of no profanity, which you do not observe on your "Showtime" show. It`s John Heilemann we`re really talking about here, the must-see "Circus" on Showtime.
Thank you very much for joining us. Really appreciate it.
And when we come back, Andy Slavitt, President Biden`s senior advisor on the coronavirus response will join us later in the hour.
But, first, what do you think should be next on the aga for the Biden- Harris administration? The answer is one word, and it`s something Donald Trump did  times. That`s next.

 Now that President Joe Biden has his first big legislative win, the West Wing and the Democrats are asking as they always do, what`s next?
Senator Sheldon Whitehouse has a one-word answer -- judges.

 Courtrooms ought to be open places where you know who is present, not a place where powerful players can come masked behind front groups hiding both their own identity and their interconnections. The Supreme Court should not be a place that has a special interest controlled fast lane bringing certain special interest chosen cases before the court at high-speed without the trappings of a real case or controversy. The court itself should not tolerate this. But if it won`t respond, we must.

 Mitch McConnell worked in nonstop coordination with the Trump White House counsel to appoint  federal judges at all levels including three United States Supreme Court justices. Many of those judges were unqualified, and all were the result of a right-wing screening process funded by dark money contributed by people in corporations who want the courts to serve them. Those judges now have lifetime appointments.
President Biden and the Senate Democrats have a long way to go to catch up, and it will take the same kind of relentless use of the confirmation process to get Biden judges into courtrooms.
Joining us now is Democratic Senator Sheldon Whitehouse of Rhode Island. He`s a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee and chairman of the Subcommittee on Federal Courts, Oversight, Agency Action and Federal Rights.
Senator Whitehouse, thank you very, very much for joining us tonight.
The story of the Trump judges, which now Joe Biden has four years to try to counter with his own appointees, the story of the Trump judges as you tell it is not just who they are and how unqualified some of them are. It`s how they got there and who put them there.
 Precisely. It`s a question of who`s behind this whole operation. And one of the things you see right now the same donors, the same entities, the same operatives, the same machinery that in the Trump administration was driving the court capture operation has now swiveled and turned its guns, the exact same guns, same money, same people, same organizations to voter suppression.
And if we don`t show the American people what this dark money operation is and try to dig at who`s behind it, then we`re doing a real disservice to the American people. And if we can show them, I think that`ll give us a whole new lease on life in terms of how the public appreciates what these three judges went through to get onto the court and what it means that they were ushered onto the court by secret special interests.
 And now, the judges who were put on the court at all levels from the Supreme Court to the federal district courts by those special interests, those special interests will be in effect in the courtroom in voter suppression cases that they will be hearing over the next few years having been put into these positions by the people who are fighting those voter suppression cases.
 With litigants in the courtroom, with bogus names like the Honest Elections Project, which is run right now by the same person who led the project that put these judges on the bench. So, they`ll be in the courtroom when these voter suppression cases are litigated to remind the judges, yes, I am the one who got you there. Now it`s payback time.
 When you were watching especially on the Judiciary Committee where the confirmations were just, you know, speeding through the committee during the Trump year of federal judges. When you were watching that and out of the Senate floor watching Mitch McConnell just bring those judges up, bring those judges up constantly, Mitch McConnell, of course, was unburdened by any concern about trying to legislate. So, he was happy to just do confirmations all day.
Were you all sitting there thinking, wait until we get our chance, wait until we get our chance? Are you going to be able to run as high-speed a confirmation process as Mitch McConnell was running?
 Gosh, I hope so. But the thing front of mind for me through all of that is, why don`t we tell the story better? Why don`t we tell the story better?
These are not things that are happening. These are things that are being done. And the force behind the all rule breaking, all the norm-breaking, all the hypocrisy and position reversals, all of the -- the whole thing just melds and people don`t behave that way if there`s not a reason. And the reason is that this machine was behind all of this. It gives money to the operation that funds Mitch McConnell`s indepent so-called political operation that has now turned its guns on voter suppression.
And it was just so frustrating to me when people would treat these as events that just happened, it was somehow just a thing that occurred and wouldn`t look at what the driving force was that was making this happen. There`s an octopus behind all these tentacle tips and we`ve got to start paying attention to it. And I hope through my old subcommittee we can pay a lot of attention to it. It certainly drives them crazy when you go after them.
 How much does H.R.  if passed solve these problems?
 Enormously. Enormously.
It would do two things. First of all, it makes government money a thing of the past for contributions over $,. And second, it takes the money spent on judicial confirmations and treats them what they are, which is a political advertising expense that has to be disclosed also.
It would make an enormous difference. As soon as the American public as citizens sees who the players are on the stage, they get the plot right away. And that`s why these nasty big dark money players love to hide behind masks and try to fool the American public and deny them the knowledge of who`s on the political stage. And in this case who`s in the courtroom.
 Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, thank you very much for joining us tonight. And I always appreciate having you here because I know you`re one of the people in the Senate who`s always doing the thinking about the issue that isn`t on the front page today that we do have to be thinking about. Thank you very much, Senator. Really appreciate it.
 True.
 Thank you.
Coming up, tonight, Joe Biden told us we can gather together again in small groups in the backyard on the Fourth of July. Andy Slavitt, the president`s senior advisor on the coronavirus response, will give us more details on how we can expect our lives to change once we have all been vaccinated in May. That`s next.


 I will not relent until we beat this virus. But I need you, the American people. I need you. I need every American to do their part, and that`s not hyperbole.
I need you. I need you to get vaccinated when it`s your turn and when you can find an opportunity. And to help your family, your fris, your neighbors get vaccinated as well.
Because here`s the point. If we do all this, if we do our part, if we do this together, by July th there`s a good chance you, your families and fris will be able to get together in your backyard or in your neighborhood and have a cookout or barbecue and celebrate Indepence Day.

 Joining us now is Andy Slavitt, White House senior advisor for COVID response. Thank you very much for joining us tonight, Mr. Slavitt. Really appreciate it.
You know, when Ron Klain did his first television appearance as White House chief of staff it was here. And you had put out at that point an outline -- what I`d call an outline of what the plan was, what the Biden plan for vaccination and COVID response was.
And I read through it, and I asked him where`s the phone number? Where`s the Web site? Where`s the thing in here that tells me where I can go to get the vaccine? And that was, of course, very early in the process.
It seems like you are now getting close to a national kind of landing point for exactly that sort of information. The president talked about that tonight in his speech without much detail that we`re going to be able to go to a particular Web site that would be centralized. It will tell us all anywhere in the country.
Is that what he was alluding to in his speech tonight?
 Well, the first obligation we had when we got here was really to increase the supply of vaccines, to increase the number of vaccinators and places for people to get vaccinated because a Web site just doesn`t do any good in its shortage.
So we had -- we really have had to fix that and, you know, we`re still in a shortage and we will be for the next few weeks. But Americans also have to, in particularly as we get past a group of people who are so eager to find a vaccine that they`ll do anything for it. To the people that are a little bit more on the fence, we`re going to have to make it easier and reduce the friction in the process and make it easier for people to find vaccines.
So, yes, the president announced tonight that in addition to all the state Web sites people will be able to go online to a federal site and find places near them that have vaccines available.
 And so when you look at that challenge of trying to deliver the interface -- because right now what I`m hearing from people who are eligible, who are of the right age or occupation is that getting the appointment itself is the biggest challenge even though they qualify with Web sites that are nonresponsive or there are just no appointments available. How do you conquer that?
 Well, the biggest problem is just a shortage. It`s not a very good feeling to get on a Web site whether it works well or it doesn`t work well, hope for a vaccine and all the appointments are taken. And that`s the folks just not having enough vaccines for the number of people we have in the country.
But that`s going to change, . That`s going to change as we continue to increase the production of vaccines from our now three manufacturers --  & , Pfizer and Moderna. And as that changes people will get less frustrated.
But even with a perfect Web site today people are going to be frustrated because it`s still difficult for many Americans to get their vaccines. We`ve made a lot of progress. One in four adults has now been vaccinated, had their first vaccine shot which is great. Over  percent of people over , which is also great. It`s a great amount of progress but we`ve got a lot more to do.
 What is the thing that you go into work every day this week saying we really need to fix this, we really need to fix this?
 I think the thing that I worry about the most is the equitable distribution of vaccines and making sure that we can get vaccines to the people who are hardest hit or in the hardest hit communities.
You know you setup a location like we did in Oakland and you setup a big stadium for lots of vaccines and what happens is the people from San Francisco come over and take all appointments and take all the vaccines.
It happens routinely that people who have access to technology, people who have access to means, that have a bit more privilege are the ones who are swooping in and taking the lion`s share of the vaccines. And racial minorities, ethnic minorities, people who live in rural locations, we`ve got to work extra hard to get those folks vaccines.
So I feel really good about the fact we`ve increased the demand. I feel great that the president was able to come out here tonight and give a vision for what the next period of time could look like if we all pull together.
That was based on his leadership and his guidance and his hard work. Yet community by community we have to make sure that the people who need these vaccines the most, the people who are working in essential occupations living in very crowded environments, that they`re getting the chance to get their vaccines.
 Joe Biden gave us his view of the Fourth of July this summer. Give us more detail on what you`re telling us we should be able to do on the fourth of July?
I think the assumption and what the president was saying is we will all be vaccinated. And so when we gather in the backyard in that small group everyone will be vaccinated. Is that one of the principles of the gathering on the Fourth of July for you is that everyone is vaccinated?
 Well, I think everyone is going to have a chance to be vaccinated by the fourth of July. But the CDC said even today that a grandparent who`s vaccinated can go visit and, yes, even hug a grandchild who hasn`t been vaccinated without a mask so long as they`re low risk, which in most cases is going to be the case.
So we`re already able to take steps. And I think, you know, the president is not one to come out and be overly optimistic. He`s one to be very straight with the public. And I think what he said tonight was if we keep doing the things that we`re doing, if we stick together, if we don`t abandon the kind of safe practices that have got us here, if we`re able to hold it together for a couple more months, then by the time we get to summer, by the time we get to Indepence Day we`re going to be in a situation where many of the things in our lives, not all of them but many of the things that we cherish so much, namely sping time with one another, we`re going to have that back.
 Andy Slavitt, thank you for the important work you`re doing, saving lives in this country. We really appreciate it. And thank you for joining us tonight.
 Thank you, .
 Coming up, we have breaking news from Albany tonight where the Democratic speaker of the assembly has authorized an impeachment investigation of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo. We will be joined by a member of the assembly who was in the meeting with the speaker when the Democratic speaker decided to launch the impeachment investigation of the Democratic governor.
That`s next.

 Dramatic development today in the investigation of New York Governor Andrew Cuomo after a closed door meeting of Democrats only in the state assembly led by the Democratic speaker Carl Heastie. The speaker issued a statement authorizing the Judiciary Committee to begin an impeachment investigation of Governor Andrew Cuomo.
The speaker said the committee will have to authority to interview witnesses, subpoena documents and evaluate evidence as is allowed by the New York state constitution.
Last night the "Albany Times Union" published an account about another unnamed woman who currently works for governor Cuomo who reportedly told staffers about inappropriate conduct with her in the workplace.
That brings the total to six named and unnamed women who have accused the governor. Last night in response to the latest accusation, the governor issued a written statement saying "I have never done anything like this."
Today the Democratic Mayor of New York city said, "It is disgusting to me and he can no longer serve as governor. It`s as simple as that." That was Mayor Bill De Blasio.
New York state government is completely controlled by Democrats who have been strong supporters of their Democratic governor. But  Democrats in the State Assembly and  Democrats in the State Senate have already called on the governor to resign including the senate majority leader.
If the impeachment investigation launched today leads to the impeachment of the governor by the assembly then Democratic Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul will immediately become acting governor while Andrew Cuomo is awaiting trial in the State Senate.
If the senate convicts Andrew Cuomo then Kathy Hochul would continue to serve as governor and serve out the term as governor. She could then run for governor in the next election in .
Joining us now is Democratic New York state assemblywoman Latrice Walker of Brooklyn. She serves on the Judiciary Committee.
Thank you very much for joining us tonight. Really appreciate. So the speaker assigned the Judiciary Committee today this investigation. What was that meeting like and were all the Democrats in the meeting in agreement with this step?
 Well, the Democratic party and the New York state assembly just like any other body is not monolithic. However, we support Speaker Heastie`s decision to have a trauma-informed process. And as a member of the New York state assembly Judiciary Committee I took an oath to uphold the state and the country`s constitution.
And the embodiment of due process is fundamental to that charge. It`s as fundamental and essential as air, food or water. It guarantees fundamental fairness and justice. And it provides a process so we`re not playing this out in political theater or the court of public opinion.
To do so -- to do otherwise or to avert this process that`s a dangerous precedent. And we must ensure that we have a sensitive balance and test where we are going to be gathering facts, looking at all of the circumstances to determine whether or not those facts warrant a further impeachment proceeding.
 The impeachment proceedings are similar to what we have seen in now the two Trump impeachments in Washington with one very, very big difference. And that is if you in the assembly impeach the governor and s him to trial in the senate, Lieutenant Governor Kathy Hochul immediately takes over as acting governor while Andrew Cuomo is awaiting trial in the senate and while he`s on trial in the senate.
How will that dynamic affect the assembly`s deliberations?
 Well, we have a budget to get back to. And Kathy Hochul as the first female lieutenant governor of the state of New York will be the first governor of the state. And we will ensure that government will continue to function to ensure that we have a budget that addresses and continues to make New York state a great place to live and raise a family.
We have a number of issues to look at which includes food insecurities, access to quality education, small business stabilization and our fundamental rights to housing. And so we look forward to getting back to work.
 So you sound tonight like you`re ready to go to work with Kathy Hochul as acting governor or as governor if Andrew Cuomo were to resign, for example.
 Well, we`ve ened a great working relationship as colleagues with her in a position of lieutenant governor. She has ushered us through the centennial of women having the right to vote. And we`ll be looking forward to a proud moment in terms of having her as our next first female governor.
 One more quick question about procedure. Will all of your investigation be public when you`re questioning witnesses? Will that be public?
 Well, it`s important for us to have a trauma-informed process. And we will be careful to not have the aggrieved have to come before the New York state attorney general throughout her investigation as well as to be put in a public forum for those stories to have to be told in a public forum twice. And so it will be a sensitive balancing test that we will address. And we look forward to securing and ensuring the privacy of all involved.
 Assemblywoman Latrice Walker, thank you very much for joining us on this important night for your duties as a member of the Judiciary Committee. Really appreciate it.
 Thank you for having me.
 Thank you.
At the  of this triumphant day for a new president fighting the economic and health effects of the pandemic we are all also at the  of our first year of living and trying to survive the pandemic.
THE  tonight will go to one of our favorite big thinkers who helps us put nights like this in perspective. Anand Giridharadas will join us next and will get tonight`s .


 Here`s the deal, guys. You know, one of the things that I think is really, really important is that everybody`s going to tell you how much they value education.
Well, I got an expression I use. Don`t tell me what you value. Show me your budget and I will tell you what you value.

 That was presidential candidate Joe Biden in May  in Houston. And now President Biden has shown us his COVID relief budget, and shown us what he values.
"The New York Times" is now calling President Biden a crusader for the poor. Quote, "Aides said he has embraced his new role, Mr. Biden has done in part by following progressives in his party to the left, and accepting the encouragement of his inner circle to use democratic power to make sweeping rather than incremental change. He has also been moved by the inequities in pain and suffering that the pandemic has inflicted on the poorest Americans, aides say."
Joining us now is Anand Giridharadas,  political analyst and publisher of "The Ink" newsletter.
Anand, I`ve followed because it`s on these nights when there are so many big things flowing through our news cycle that seem related but I can`t quite put them together. That is when I need the big thinker.
What are your reflections as we come to this, the  of this night where we have this big legislative victory by Joe Biden, this promise of a fully- vaccinated country, and this delivery, this delivery, the signing of that bill today, of a massive surge of economic aid in real money to people who need it?
 Hope and history really do rhyme sometimes, as that poem says. You know, today is also the one-year anniversary, as you know, of the declaration of the pandemic that launched this year for all of us.
And fittingly, it`s the eve of the th anniversary of FDR`s first fireside chat, which I thought was kind of interesting. And this year that Joe Biden spoke about tonight was a year not of one story but many, right.
It was a story obviously of illness and death and pain. But also a story of protest, extraordinary protest, of bravery, of mutual aid, of invention, of resilience.
It was a year marked by this pandemic but also by a lot of intersecting crises. Crises that intersect with it, health, economic, racial, and democratic crisis. Remember when we thought we might not still have the rule of law. As Texas and other places illustrate climate is still very much with us.
And coming out of this year, what I have been thinking about is if there is a gift of this cursed year, it is the  to any illusion that we had been living right. And the prompting to not just rebuild as we`ve heard the president talk about, which is important, but also to rethink. To rethink.
And so when I was, you know, processing the making of this sausage of legislation that was signed today, at first, probably like a lot of people watching this, I was dismayed by a lot of things I was hearing and reading, right.
Minimum wage was in and then it was out. Benefits were bigger and then they were smaller. And it all -- it seemed like this thing that, you know, Prime Minister Joe Manchin was, you know, prevailing.
And as I dug into the details of the final package, I actually began to revise my own sense of it and I think a lot of have and started to realize that this is a -- it`s not perfect, it`s not everything. A lot of it is not permanent which we need to deal with.
But a lot of this is quietly revolutionary. Starting with the child benefit that creates the rudiments of a basic income for families in this country. Direct cash to families. Changes in the tax code that, shock of all shocks, after  years of the reverse, actually most benefit the core.
And what a lot of these things, talking about tying things together. What they seem to have in common to me is that they reflect not just new policies but new thinking, rethinking. In particular, the new notion that has been gaining ground of giving people money directly. It`s been advocated by lots of people, this policy, this program reflects it.
The idea of centering the poor, not just the middle class. Joe Biden talks a lot about the middle class, Democrats often don`t like to talk about the poor because they are scared of losing the white working class voters who resent the poor. This bill centers the poor.
This bill and this administration, its economic policy, has actually shown a little bit of a cold shoulder to some of the Wall Streeters who shape these kinds of responses in the past. This is not a Larry Summers and Robert Ruben  administration which makes it decisively different from the Obama and Clinton.
And finally, ignoring the deficit worrywarts. This is not a program that reflects their influence. So what I`m seeing is early days. But what I`m seeing is the hulking ship of American conventional wisdom on these matters turning, beginning to turn.
And I would say as reflected in the tone of the president tonight, who is not someone who I have always seen eye to eye with at all, but I see a president whose most singular capacity is his capacity to be influenced, a desire to be pushed, a desire to meet this moment potentially.
And I see him and a country potentially waking up to new truths.
 I also think that you are seeing someone who went from representing one state, Delaware, to now  and was in training for that for eight years as vice president. And so he is a different person than the person who served as senator.
Anand Giridharadas, thank you very much for joining us tonight. Always appreciate it. Thank you.
 Thank you so much for having me.
 Thank you. That is tonight`s .
" starts now.


 So I don`t really have time to think really more than that.
 Could you believe you`re seeing what you were saying.
 Yes. I mean, I wouldn`t have believed that if I hadn`t seen and heard it myself.

 A witness on site in Boulder, Colorado.  will keep monitoring the situation. The coverage continues now with "THE ."
 Good evening, everyone. I`m Jason  in tonight for . We`ve got a lot of news to get to, including the latest on the investigation into the January th insurrection. There are some stunning new comments from the former top prosecutor on the case.
 local time.
An eyewitness live streamed the event on YouTube. The video shows what appears to be several shooting victims and police arriving on the scene with guns drawn. NBC is reporting that a shirtless man with blood running down his leg was escorted out of the store in handcuffs. It is not clear if the man was a suspect. Colorado Governor Jared Polis has tweeted that he is monitoring the situation.
Meanwhile, the DOJ appears ready to drop the hammer on the insurrectionist who led the siege of the U.S. capitol. Some of the worst aggressors in the January th attack could soon be facing new indictments for sedition, one of the rarest and most stigmatizing criminal charges that prosecutors can bring. That`s according to the former acting U.S. attorney for Washington, D.C., Michael Sherwin, the Trump appointee who led the investigation until earlier this month.
In a  MINUTES interview last night, he said the growing body of evidence will support sedition charges.

 Yes. I personally believe the evidence is tring towards that and probably meets those elements.
 Do you anticipate sedition charges against some of these suspects?
 I believe the facts do support those charges. And I think that as we go forward, more facts will support that.

: This comes after the Department of Justice on Friday unsealed new conspiracy charges against members of the far-right extremist group, the Proud Boys, who were at the forefront of the siege. The indictment reveals how their attack was premeditated and coordinated through an encrypted messaging app. Not only that, but the messages appear to show they readily embraced the conspiracy theory that Joe Biden stole the  election. That`s the big lie the former President Donald Trump amplified in the leading up to the January th attack. And according to Sherwin, his role -- the former president`s role in the attack is still under scrutiny.

 Has the role of former President Trump been part of your investigation?
 It`s unequivocal that Trump was the magnet that brought the people to D.C. on the th. Now, the question is, is he criminally culpable for everything that happened during the siege, during the breach?
 In short, you have investigators looking into the president`s role?
 We have people looking at everything, correct. Everything is being looked at.

: Sherwin said there are now over  criminal cases before the courts. That includes the two defants arrested last week for using an unknown chemical spray to assault Capitol Police Officer Brian Sicknick, who later died of his injuries. Sherwin confirmed that we could see murder charges ping a report from the medical examiner. Joining me now is  --.

 If evidence directly relates that chemical to his death, yes, we have causation, we have a link, yes, in that scenario, correct, that`s a murder case.

: Joining me now is  Counterterrorism and Intelligence Analyst Malcolm Nance, Paul Butler is a former Federal Prosecutor, and Rosa Brooks, is a former Defense Department Official and Author of Tangled up in Blue, Policing the American city. Thank you all so much for joining me this evening.
I`m going to start with you, Paul. First off, just to explain to the laymen and lay women out there, what is sedition, and why is that charge so significant in the wake of this insurrection?
 Sedition is using violence to oppose the government or to prevent the law from being carried out. So it`s, for example, using violence to prevent the certification of the election. It would be a high profile charge that would carry a lot of symbolism. Some of the other charges have been obstruction of government property or damage or trespass. To a lot of people, that doesn`t really fit the crime. So sedition says that what these folks tried to do was to overturn the government.
It`s a rare case. There has been one federal prosecution for sedition in the last ten years. Back in , and that charge was unsuccessful. The prosecutors lost that case.
: So I just want to follow up really quickly. For the regular person, what`s the difference between sedition and treason, or is there much of a difference, legally?
 So, treason is a crime that`s named in the Constitution that`s aiding and abetting the enemy. Sedition is about people who, on their own will, in this case, American citizens, want to overthrow the government. In a sense, it`s like a criminal law version of treason, but it doesn`t require cooperating with or aiding and abetting enemies. In this case, the people who are charged are essentially enemies of the United States themselves.
: So, Rosa, we have some audio here. We talk about the idea of overthrowing the government. You had a lot of people who were part of this insurrection, part of this attack who consider themselves Blue Lives Matter, yet they engaged in violence against police officers. I want to listen to this audio and get your commentary on the other side.

 We`re not here for you. We`re here for America.
 The Capitol Police force requests backup. These internal radio communications are from the reinforcements, officers from D.C.`s Municipal Police force, or MPD, were called in to help the capitol police.
 Cruiser , , , mount up.
 Police escalate their response and start using more crowd control weapons.
 They`re shooting into their own people. We represent blue lives and this is what they do to us.
 Multiple deployments thrown by Capitol and MPD.
 One sting ball deployed and authorized to hold the line.
 Cruiser , we`re flanked. -. I repeat, - west front of the Capitol. We have been flanked and we`ve lost the line.

: Rosa, we have talked for months since this attack about the fact that you have some police force members who seem to be sort of empathetic to the attackers, that some of the people who attacked the capitol are in police departments. When you hear this kind of video, is this the kind of thing that`s going to be helpful in a prosecution, when you see these people sort of admitting they`re engaging in violence and we`re doing this for you or just a kind of muddy the waters between who the attackers are and who the supporters might be?
 No, I think it helps the prosecution. I mean, listening to that audio, seeing that footage, it is shocking and it makes it very clear this wasn`t just a bunch of protesters who were pro-Trump, this was a mob of people using violence to take over the Capitol.
And, you know, I have actually always been very leery of using the word, sedition, talking about things like treason or sedition, because, historically in the United States, those terms have often been used against minorities, against immigrants, against people on the left who were dissenters and criticized the U.S. government. But if ever there was a situation that cried out for the use of that symbolically very powerful term, this is it. This was a violent insurrection, and there`s really no other word for it.
: Now, I don`t have any other word for other than violent insurrection, but, apparently, Senator Ron  does. We have a senator who has been saying for days now, in various environments, that, well, he didn`t necessarily feel threatened and he doesn`t necessarily see why this is a problem.
And Malcolm, I want to ask you, when you have members of Congress coming forward and saying, well, I didn`t feel threatened or the threat was only in this part of the building and not for me because I thought these were law-abiding citizens, does that give you more or less confidence that we could ever get a real investigation at the congressional level into what happened that day?
 Well, certainly not from Senator Ron . I mean, let`s be straight up and frank. He`s a liar. We saw the video with our own eyes of him actually -- of not him, but the insurrectionists going right into the Senate chambers, going through, you know, the notes of his fellow senators, standing on the dais, saying that they were looking for information that would get something on them, bringing wrist ties and flex cuffs into the Senate chamber themselves, and, you know, the vice president being within  feet of these insurrectionists.
I mean, what`s going on here is Ron  has decided he is going to be the executor of Donald Trump`s big lie, and they are desperate to cover for the violent actions of their supporters. He`s also pushing, you know, Antifa and other people were in there doing that.
Look, I monitored their communications in real-time. I watched their video streams in real-time before the speech had ed, and they were already fighting on the western wing of the Capitol building with some ferocity. And, you know, I had six different researchers watching them penetrate the building.
And for them to suddenly go and say, it wasn`t our people, we didn`t do it, I didn`t feel any threat because, you know, they were essentially non-black people, non-Antifa people, is just pandering to people who literally carried out crimes.
And, you know, I don`t know if he actually believes this or if he just thinks that you know, he`s going to get reelected by pushing the Trump party line, but it shows you can`t trust that man. You can`t trust a word out of his mouth.
: Yes, you know, if I was saying that I felt safe at a Klan rally, it doesn`t mean the Klan is safe.
You know, Paul, I want to bring this back because as we have begun these investigations, one of the concerns I have had is that you`re already seeing plea deals. You`re already seeing examples where people are playing out or playing to lesser charges. To me, an insurrection is an insurrection, right? There`s no such thing as a little big pregnant, a little bit murder, a little bit insurrection. Why are we already seeing plea deals and is that to catch bigger fish down the road or is it because the government doesn`t actually think they have a strong case against some of these people?
 Yes. So part of the reason could be to get people to cooperate with the government, to turn in people who have more involvement and more culpability.
So in the insurrection, we had some people who essentially trespassed. They entered the Capitol, but they didn`t try to harm officers or commit any acts of violence or property destruction. And then we have other folks, like these four Proud Boy leaders who were indicted last week, who engaged in advanced planning, deliberations, concealment, and we have other folks who were very likely involved in the murder of officer Brian Sicknick.
And so there should be a range of charges that fit the appropriate criminality. And I think that`s what prosecutors are doing. They`re hoping that some people will cooperate to help them find the people who were the leaders and planners of the insurrection.
: And, Rosa, again, we had a large number of people who were involved in this insurrection who were either current or former law enforcement officers. And while we`re focusing on what happened in D.C., a lot of these people went back home, they went to their home states. They`re now back to the police departments that they were in before.
Is there a national movement or shouldn`t we be having a discussion about what we can do to purge these kinds of people or these attitudes from local police departments and what would that look like if we could do it?
 Jason, I think this is a huge wake-up call. I mean, this is something that we have had groups like the Southern Poverty Law Center have been warning for a long time now, that some of these far-right extremist white nationalist groups have been actively trying to recruit from within law enforcement and have been actively trying to encourage their members who are not in law enforcement to join precisely in order to essentially subvert it from within.
And we don`t -- what we don`t know is exactly the extent of the problem. We don`t know if this is a problem for  percent, . percent,  percent,  percent, but I think this makes it really clear that it`s incredibly urgent that we find out.
You know, I think the problem, as you know, is that policing in this country is completely decentralized. It`s state level, municipal level, federal and different agencies and we`ve got some police chiefs and some sheriffs who probably, if they`re not active members, may be sympathetic to some of these groups.
So I think it`s going to be a long haul to identify those people and get them out of law enforcement. I think the federal government is going to have to play a leading role because we can`t always assume that local law enforcement will be as enthusiastic as they ought to be, but we`ve got to do it.
: And I want to  with this. Malcolm, we have talked about this on our podcast, we have talked about this before on the air, of what kind of changes, security-wise, might be necessary in Congress going forward. There`s a debate right now in D.C., should we be taking down this gates. What changes do you want to see in Congress after this as far as security goes, even as we continue to investigate some of the people who attacked? What should we be doing differently in the Capitol building now?
 Well, certainly, the physical security within the Capitol building is going to have to be beefed up. You know, they`re going to have to install blast doors around the structure so, you know, doors that can be shut completely, which they should have had anyway. I mean, it`s a counterterrorism measure there.
They`re going to have to also have rapid response force that is completely and wholly indepent of the Metropolitan Police Department, Capitol Hill Police. Maybe the marines and AFNI  will have a much more rapid response capability. The D.C. Guard may have to have ready teams or equipment standing by with, you know, -hour, one-day notice in order to mobilize for these things.
But the Capitol is probably going to have a permanent fence around it that will be a closer perimeter than what`s there right now. But, you know, my beloved late wife was part of the planning commission after / and she was architect of Washington, D.C., and she had recommed a, you know, palace fence that was beautiful, like Buckingham Palace, around the entire Capitol perimeter, and it wasn`t implemented. And now we could see where that may have been necessary.
: Thank you so much, Malcolm Nance and Rosa Brooks. Paul Butler will be back with me later. Thanks you all so much.
We continue to follow tonight`s breaking news. Police responded to an active shooter at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado.
And up next, the growing number of unaccompanied children at the southern border, we have new images from inside one of the border overflow facilities.
Plus, a state of emergency in Miami Beach after spring breakers egged on by Governor DeSantis flood into the city amid the pandemic. The mayor of Miami Beach joins me live. THE  continues after this.


 The border is closed. We are expelling families. We are expelling single adults. And we have made a decision that we will not expel young vulnerable children.

: The Biden administration is making clear that the Southern border is closed, as it steps up efforts to address the ongoing human rights crisis there amid a surge in migrants.
According to data obtained by NBC News, as of Sunday, more than , unaccompanied migrant children are in Customs and Border Patrol custody, bringing the total number of unaccompanied minors in government custody to nearly ,.
And we`re learning more about the conditions inside some of those facilities. Texas Democratic Congressman Henry Cuellar`s office released photos taken inside an overflow facility in Donna, Texas. His office says the pictures were taken this week, although we don`t know by whom.
NBC News received the photos with faces already obscured. The Department of Homeland Security and CBP didn`t comment on the photos, but didn`t dispute their authenticity either.
Meanwhile, Connecticut Democratic SenatorMurphy toured a separate facility last week. He tweeted that he fought back tears as a -- quote -- "-year-old girl sob uncontrollably," explaining through a translator how terrified she was having been separated from her grandmother and without her parents.
Here`s how he described it today.

 I wouldn`t want my children to be in those detention facilities. But this isn`t . These aren`t cages. There are doctors and child care workers there.
And the Biden administration is trying to deal with a mess they were left from the Trump administration.

: The Biden administration has dispatched top officials to Mexico and Central America to jointly develop a plan of action.
And NBC News has learned that border agents in the Rio Grande Valley have been authorized to release some migrants without court dates to reduce the time migrants sp in custody.
I`m joined now by Texas Democratic Congresswoman Veronica Escobar and  correspondent Gabe Gutierrez in Donna, Texas.
Gabe, I want to start with you.
What does it look like on the ground? What is an overflow facility, for people who don`t necessarily know what that means or what that looks like right now?
 Hi there, Jason.
Well, we`re right in front of that facility that you reference here in Donna, Texas. It`s about an hour outside of McAllen. And this was initially built, Jason, for about  migrants. But now we`re seeing more than , migrant children in this facility alone.
And you referenced those pictures that were leaked today by Congressman Henry Cuellar here in Texas. And he said he released those photos because he wanted the public to see the situation here. He says that, while the Biden administration, in his words, is doing all it can, that these numbers are overwhelming and that people need to pay attention.
Now, as you said, he did not tour the facility himself. But someone gave him these pictures. He wouldn`t say who. But he also said that he was told that there are eight pods inside this facility. Each of those pods has a capacity of about  people. Right now, one of them has more than  people.
And, Jason, if you look behind me, you see these Border Patrol vehicles there. You see a lot of activity, buses coming in and out. And, basically, migrant children are brought to facilities like this one to be processed by the Border Patrol before they`re then given the Department of Health and Human Services, so that they can find a sponsor.
The problem here at the border right now is that there is such a rise in the number of unaccompanied minors, that more than  of them or so have been in the processing phase for more than  days.
And that is far beyond the three-day legal limit for all this, so certainly a lot of questions for the Biden administration on how to reduce this backlog and to s more resources here. Of course, Republicans are pouncing on this issue -- Jason.
: And, Gabe, a follow-up real quick on this. What is this new surge about?
Is there some new instability? I know that there are initial conversations with Lopez Obrador in Mexico. What is leading to the recent surge in migrants at our border over the last four or five months?
 And something that the Biden administration has pointed out is that there was -- they were starting to see an uptick in people coming to the border, in migrants coming to the border in the tail  of the Trump administration.
Now, we have been speaking with migrants over the last couple of days. Jason, both here on the U.S. side of the border, but also in Mexico. While some of them told us they didn`t know the specifics, of course, of the change in Biden policies -- of course, the Biden administration is now choosing to keep unaccompanied minors here in the United States.
Others did tell us that they generally felt an ease -- a loosening rather, of border policies, of the restrictions that the Trump administration had put in place. And that`s why they felt now`s the time they needed to come.
But, Jason, this is a very complicated issue.
: Right.
 It`s not just one thing. Many of the migrants who we spoke with say that, in Central America, they fear the violence in those Central American countries.
Also, in Southern Mexico, in late last year, there were a hurricane -- hurricanes that battered parts of Central America and Nicaragua. So, economically, there are lots of issues there. So, certainly, this in some ways, it`s turning out to be a perfect storm here in the early part of the Biden administration -- Jason.
: Speaking of storms, Texas has been battered by them recently.
Congresswoman Escobar, I want to play you some sounds from your governor. There`s obviously a lot of tension within Texas, both politically and from a policy standpoint, on how to deal with these migrants. But his suggestions and his implications about the people coming here aren`t helpful.
I`d like your thoughts when we come back from this.

 And now the bad administration is importing COVID into the state of Texas, exposing more Texans to that, and who knows what we`re going to see, whether or not there will be an explosion of COVID in the locations where the Biden administration is putting these migrants.

: Congresswoman, is this language at all helpful?
I mean, distribution has been pretty low in Texas in general, but the implication that bringing in people in a humanitarian crisis is going to lead to a health care crisis of COVID, that doesn`t seem helpful to me. How`s that playing back home in Texas?
 Hi, Jason.
Well, first, I just want to say to our fris in Boulder, Colorado, my heart goes out to them with what`s happening there, the active shooter. We have had an active shooter in El Paso in the past, August , .
: Right.
 So, I`m just praying for everyone there.
But, Jason, the words of Governor Greg Abbott are actually really dangerous. Speaking of an active shooter, we had an active shooter who came into El Paso whose hatred was fueled by xenophobic, anti-immigrant rhetoric that came from not just from the White House at the time, from Donald Trump, but came from people like Governor Greg Abbott himself, the idea of immigrants bringing disease.
That is an old racist trope inted to inspire fear and hatred. He`s done it before. It is absolutely reprehensible.
And something that folks should understand, FEMA, under the Biden administration, offered to help the state of Texas with testing migrants as they were coming into our front door. Governor Greg Abbott rejected that help and, in fact, has stood in the way of our ability to access that help.
And yet he immediately then goes on cable news shows, FOX News, to decry the fact that migrants might have COVID, when he can help us address the issue? It`s really shameful and dangerous.
: And I want to really hammer home this point. What you`re saying is, this kind of language leads to violence. And I want to make that so clear.
Thank you so much, Congresswoman Veronica Escobar and Gabe Gutierrez for speaking with us today. We`re definitely going back to this issue.
 The city of Miami Beach has exted an emergency curfew after chaotic scenes like these. Police used pepper balls to disperse maskless partiers. That city`s mayor joins us to talk about what comes next.
And we`re awaiting a press conference in this hour with the Boulder police on the shooting at a grocery store there tonight.
Stay with us for that breaking news.

 p.m. curfew in effect for the next three weeks.
That was a decision by city leaders, after scenes like this showing the chaos over the week, with both spring breakers and other tourists overwhelming the city. As you can see, the people there showing no concern for the pandemic, no masks, no social distancing. A SWAT team was deployed to manage the unruly crowds.
Some police used pepper balls to get the people to disperse. More than , people have been arrested in Miami Beach since the beginning of spring break season last month.
Joining me now is Miami Beach Mayor Dan Gelber.
Thank you so much for joining us this evening, Mayor.
I have got to ask you this up front. I can imagine there are regular challenges to managing Miami Beach in a non-pandemic year. So, tell us some of the regular challenges that you have as mayor during this time and how they have been complicated by the COVID pandemic.
 Well, thanks for having me, Jason, and your interest in this.
Look, our city is a great city. It`s a hospitality city, seven-and-a-half miles of beaches, stunning architecture, all these great venues. And this is a pretty small area.
But we do obviously have crowd control issues when we have big events.
: Right.
 We generally are pretty good because we know how to move people around, and our residents understand that.
This is of a different order. And I need to correct you. I don`t think these are spring breakers. I don`t think this -- these are mischievous college sophomores wanting to have fun. I think it`s older folks who are coming in because they have been -- some of them have been -- just probably want to let loose somewhere, or worse, some of them are just coming with some real bad intentions.
Most of the people here are not like that, but too many are. And it`s created a policing challenge, because, when you have thousands of people in an open road, and they start to -- doing things, and it`s -- it becomes like a tinder. And we have had a couple instances where we have felt like we have lost control.
So, we have to do this because losing control is just not an option in an American city.
: And are the crowds bigger than in years past, I mean, or is this -- are they just rowdier?
How does this crowd differ this year, other than the pandemic? Is it just a larger number?
 Well, we think it`s bigger, and we think it keeps coming.
I think, if you think about it, there are very few states that are open and there are very few destination cities that are open. And the governor sort of made it so that we have to be open. We aren`t even allowed to do some of the things we have been doing, like requiring people to wear masks. He stopped us from actually imposing a mask mandate that we had and that we were enforcing.
So, we`re getting more people. And we also seem to be getting people who, maybe because they have been somewhere and not able to do what they`d like to do, are coming here to act out. And, sometimes, it`s not just rambunctiousness. It`s gunplay.
We have -- we have taken  guns from people over the last month or two, mostly from license plate readers, where it was a person with a gun who had an outstanding warrant. So, this is not -- this is not spring break. This is something of a different order.
: Mayor Gelber, I want to play this sound for you of people talking about the role that Governor DeSantis is playing in bringing people to state and get your comment on the other side.

 Governor DeSantis knows far better than anybody in Washington, D.C., whether Florida is ready to be open, and I trust his judgment. And I hope that people get on airplanes and go to Florida. I know I`m going to now.

: Now, Mr. Mayor, this sounds to me like your roommate in college who tells the whole bar, hey, party is back at our place, and doesn`t tell you when everybody shows up at the house.
Is Governor DeSantis offering any additional assistance to Miami Beach, when he`s gone around the whole country and telling people to come there? Or did he basically just tell you guys, hey, you got to handle it, everybody`s coming from the corner bar?
 Well, I actually spoke to his chief of staff a few days ago and asked for two dozen Florida Highway Patrol to deal with the other folks who have been sing us help. And he agreed. So, we have some Highway Patrol. So, he has helped.
The problem, though, is that local mayors like me have been sing an entirely different message. We have been telling people, wear your masks. Be smart about this.
: Right.
 The virus is still here. We have , deaths in Florida. And my county has about , infections a day, and  to  people checking into the hospital every day.
And we`re telling them to do one thing, and the governor is telling them to do something else. And it`s not a smart thing, when you have these kinds of challenges, to have different messages going out.
: And, at this point, if my understanding is -- correctly, Miami Beach has about an  or  percent infection rate at this point. It`s one of the most COVID-infected cities in Florida. Is this correct?
 The county has between  and  percent. That`s the range we have been in. And we are part of the county.
Of course, our challenge is that our residents have been terrific. And most of the city is fine, by the way. But what`s happening is, we take -- most of the people coming are not from our city. They`re from the county or really from the rest of the country. And what we don`t want to do is have people come here, do what you see -- what they`re doing, and then go back to their communities with the British variant or some virus.
Even if these young people are -- can handle it just fine, who knows what they`re going to do when they get back home? And we don`t want to be part of a fourth wave or a fourth surge. It`s not what we would like to do.
: And I want to also bring this up.
So, the governor last year, in , had proposed something like a -- what do you call it, like a college student bill of rights. And he was saying that this is just what college kids do. This is an important part of our state.
Look, honestly, he clearly wanted to make a bill of rights that doesn`t include voting, because Governor DeSantis hasn`t made that easy for college-aged kids.
But what do you say to his staffers when they`re telling you, hey, this is just an important part of our economy, people have to come party, and you`re sitting there saying, hey, look, there`s going to be long-term financial consequences? Is anybody listening to you, or do you think it`s going on deaf ears?
 Look, I have had some pretty public disagreements with the governor about how he`s handled the pandemic.
And I can tell you that, for me, it`s very simple. The more infections we have, the more hospitalizations we have. The more hospitalizations we have, the more deaths we have, and serious hospitalizations. And we have way too many.
: Right.
 And so for the governor to decide that he just isn`t going to preach the idea that we should all be smart -- you can open up smartly.
: Right.
 I don`t know why he insists on telling people, just go crazy, it`s fine, because, honestly, this is what we`re getting.
And it`s both dangerous and, by the way, it`s -- it could be easily a super-spreader. And we don`t need that so close to the  zone.
: Definitely.
All right, thank you so much, Miami Mayor -- Miami Beach Mayor Dan Gelber. Thank you so much.

: Meanwhile, we are continuing to monitor tonight`s breaking news from Boulder.
Authorities and emergency crews have been responding to an active shooter at a local supermarket. Video posted on YouTube showed what appears to be several shooting victims and police arriving on the scene with guns drawn. The FBI is involved in the response.
Colorado Governor Jared polis tweeted, quote, my prayers are with our fellow Coloradans in this time of sadness and grief, as we learn more about the extent of the tragedy, unquote. Any moment, Boulder police will hold a press conference to update the situation.
Joining me now is Jim Cavanaugh, former ATF special agent. Good to speak to you again. Unfortunately, under sad circumstances, as usual.
I have to ask you up front, Jim. When we see active shooter situations like this, my first question is, one, what do you think could motivate this kind of activity? Especially in a pandemic. What would drive someone in general to want to engage in this kind of violence where there`s not only the threat of people responding in kind, but just being outdoors and in proximity to other people can make you sick.
 Well, you know, the country is under tremous stress, and people are under tremous stress. Not only the political situation, the capitol insurrection, the pandemic. I mean, the country is stressed. The world is stressed.
With shooters, we also have, Jason, a copycat effect sometimes. We had this horrous hate crime, and let`s call that what it is in Atlanta. Whether it gets charged as that, you know, is a nuance of the elements of proof of a federal criminal or state criminal violation, but it is a hate crime. I mean, we know that the attack at the Asian spas against Asians and females, both are hate crimes.
: Right.
 So sometimes when those are in the news, actors act out their desires. It can be a murder at home, kill their family, could go to the market and start shooting. It can be tied to one of these hate groups.
I mean, they are ascant in America. You know, I have said many times and I think you and I have discussed it, it`s really worse than the `s in the level of killings we have had in the last ten years.
So, we have a lot of stresses out there. That doesn`t justify violence. But it just goes to the mindset of people that they`re going to act out just like this killer in Atlanta.
He`s going to act out against people. And lash out against people, fellow Americans. And kill them, as if that solves anything. And you know, why is a person shooting somebody at a supermarket? You know, shades of El Paso, which was a hate crime, again. Against immigrants,  people dead.
So we don`t know what the motive is in Colorado. We don`t exactly know. It`s going to be a heart of heartache over there because one of the witnesses earlier on`s show said they saw three people down, two outside and one inside.
And there was a lot of reports of gunfire and reports that the shooter shot at Boulder patrol officers when they arrived. And I saw SWAT officers there, Jason, from Boulder, Lakewood, Jefferson County. Sure the state police are there, and FBI and ATF are there.
So everybody is there. Everything is going to get done. The key for the commanders is you have to stop the killing. It`s not about evidence when you get there, like this. It`s not about anything like that. It`s stopping the killing. And you have to do that by locating it, isolating the killers.
If there`s only one, you sweep for others, and then you check for bombs, and then you check for other victims even at other locations. So, that`s going to be a lot of heartache tonight in Boulder and that`s going to be a lot of work tonight in boulder.
: Okay. You`re going to stay with us. We`re going to take a quick break. When we come back, I believe we`ll be at the beginning of the press conference in Boulder, Colorado.
This is Jason  in for THE . Stay with us. We`ll be back after this break.

: We`re standing by for a press briefing by the Boulder Police any minute to update on the shooting at a local grocery store. Back with me is Jim Cavanaugh, former ATF special agent, and joining me now is,  chief legal correspondent and host of "."
I want to start with you, Ari, because this is always the first question that comes to mind when we have these kind of terrible shootings. What is the sort of status of gun laws in the state of Colorado? Do they have a lot of loopholes? Is it you can buy a gun and shoot it the same day? What might be the circumstances that allow the shooter to get access to their gun in that state?
 Well, I`ll say, Jim is the ATF expert, can also give us insight on that, so happy to tag team that. This story first broke on  at least in our live coverage, as you know, Jason, just within the last hour. We`re looking at some of this footage that has been cleared from ZFG, and our standards have cleared this. You have been mentioning there`s much we don`t know at this point. The footage we also have of an individual leaving the scene may or may not be confirmed as a suspect.
I think what we would expect in the upcoming press conference is really a briefing on what they can say on the safety and security of the situation, what people should know in that neighborhood, if and whether they`re seeking additional information, be that about the individual or individuals that they think they have apprehed or other background information. The overhead shots that we have seen, and Jim and I were reporting this out last hour, do suggest some level of security and the scene being eventually under control.
And I don`t believe I know, and I`ll defer to Jim as well on what if anything we can say about the firearms situation based on what the authorities have said. We hope to learn more at this briefing.
: Right. And, Jim, are you aware of, you know, would you consider Colorado to your knowledge to be a state where access to guns is relatively easy? Is it perhaps more challenging? Do you know anything about that, and again, the role that may or may not play when we have mass shootings?
 Yeah, usually, the western states, and you know, I don`t know every specific bit about Colorado`s law, but normally the western states are pretty easy, open carry, you know, permitless carry, they may require a concealed, you know, a permit to carry concealed.
But as far as acquiring a firearm, you know, anybody who is  can buy a rifle. Colorado is not prohibiting that, and that`s federal law. Most of the states allow that in the West. And handguns can be purchased from dealers if you`re .
And generally, they`re not illegal to possess. Now, the reports from the news, other news in the local news but not NBC confirmed is that there was an AR- rifle and some body armor. I already had a witness on that said two people dead outside, I`m sorry, two people down outside, and one person down inside that were apparently wounded.
So, we -- there is some victims, apparently. We don`t know the extent of it. There was a man walked out,had the video. We don`t know. See, when you get into these things, what happened is anybody who comes out can say I`m just a witness, I`m just a victim, and they could very well be involved.
And so often they are just a witness. Police will handcuff them, it`s routine to take them in, they`re questioned, they`re identified while the sweep is going on, and then they`re just released anywhere just a witness. We don`t know who that man was. We do know, all the SWAT teams were. I saw three different SWAT teams. They had their bearcat vehicles. They moved up with, you know, portable armored unit, a man walk armored unit to get up there with their long rifles.
So, there might have been some negotiating attempt. There is the video thatshowed earlier if the man being walked. He just had on a pair of shorts.
So, we don`t know exactly who he is and Boulder police publicly hasn`t said so far that we know if they suspect him or if he`s just a witness. He`s being checked out and he goes in an ambulance.
So, it could be either way. Even a wounded shooter still gets medical attention, goes through an ambulance, or he could be just a victim who was shot and they don`t know his identity. So, it`s going to be a long night in Boulder, because there`s a lot of answers. You know, people there are going to be a tremous until the police chief and the sheriff can get out and tell them what`s going on directly. Hopefully, they will at this press conference.
You know, tell them what they know, be specific.
: Right.
 And not just, Jason, you know, and you know this as being professor, you know, information like it`s an isolated incident is not good, you have to be more specific than that. You have to tell who you have in custody, what firearms you have, what areas you searched, what other allegations are afoot.
Sometimes in these things you get reports of multiple shooters. I`ve never been to one where there weren`t reports of multiple shooters, and we`ve always swept for multiple shooters, but usually you don`t have that. it`s just witnesses seeing different things.
: We`re going to bring in NBC`s Gadi Schwartz. All right.
I just wanted to ask, you know, what are some of the other things that we picked up on the ground? What are some of the concerns that people have had? Have we heard additional rumors about other shooters or is right now people are just sort of calm and waiting for what this presser is going to present us?
 I think right now a lot of people are just waiting for that presser, and we have seen a lot of unconfirmed rumors that have been swirling on social media. In fact, just a little while ago, the police department in boulder put out a statement saying that there are these rumors swirling. Many of them are untrue.
Right now, we`re going to completely hold off on any type of speculation until that press conference starts in about  minutes with some concrete information. What I can tell you, though, is we`ve been monitoring this from a livestream that went up just a few minutes after that shooting.
So we have seen with our own eyes through this livestream some of those moments right after that shooting happened and during the shooting as well. It appears as though that livestream was started by a man who said he was a journalist and he was headed into that store and, all of a sudden, he started to hear some shots.
So that video shows a lot of things that we are not going to be showing on television, but what we can tell you, from reviewing that video and seeing it play out live is that there were several bodies. There was a body in the parking lot that appeared to be face down, there was a body in the entryway of that supermarket, and then there was a body inside of the supermarket. At this point it is unclear if they may have survived, what the extent of their injuries were.
But that livestreamer had come across them basically as he was broadcasting to tens of thousands of people, and so we saw that play out, then all of a sudden he pulls back, starts taking cover as you hear the sounds of shots being fired. And that continues on for about ,  minutes, shots fired, and then you finally see police desc on that King Soopers, and that`s what you`re seeing in that video there, those officers swarming the building and many of them going onto the roof.
So you had officers in all directions that were basically surrounding the building. They started to tell whoever was inside that they were surrounding the building, to come out with their hands up, and you saw them on the roof. Then you saw what appeared to be officers somehow desc into the store, and then things took a turn where you saw a man that was led out in handcuffs, and he had been stripped down to or possibly removed his clothing himself, but he was not wearing a shirt, he was not wearing pants. He appeared to have been just been wearing boxers and he had some sort of injury on his leg, and he was dripping blood as they took him from that store.
Now, at this point, again, he was in cuffs but it`s unclear as though -- whether or not he was a suspect in this shooting. All of it was developing. In fact, that`s the video you see right there. That`s the man being led over to a police car.
And, again, unclear if he is the suspect, but after that, things started to relax a little bit at the scene and then we started to see people led out of that building. But still no word whether the actual gunman is in custody at this moment.
Back to you.
: So, I want -- I want focus on that image, Ari, that you had earlier on your show. You know, when this press conference happens, obviously, the police have to be very careful. They have to be very careful with their legal language.
What is some of the language that they`re going to have to be very careful with? Because the public sees a guy being walked out of a building in handcuffs with blood going down his leg. But obviously that person can`t be -- we don`t know if that person is a suspect. We don`t know what they`ve done.
What`s the kind of language we`ll hear in a press conference as the police try to stay within the confines of the law but also tell the public that this is being handled and being investigated properly?
 Yeah, it`s a great question, Jason. This is an incident of interest, obviously, in Boulder, Colorado, and around the nation when you look at something like this when what we`ve learned about it. You can expect the police to speak first in terms of the action report.
That is, before you get to the phase of whether and how other authorities or prosecutors would charge a case, the police will say what they think they found without compromising the investigation, whether they think they have identified a suspect, whether they say they`ve secured the area, who they`ve detained. So whether or not that comes with identifying information, if they are in a position to give this briefing, which they are, they`re running a few minutes behind, but we expect it momentarily, we would expect them to be able to say things about if and who they comprehed anyone, the number of victims or possibly -- and we`re not reporting this, but possibly the number of victims or deceased in this situation.
: Right.
 Those are the kinds of things they should say, as well as, as always, and Jim and I were discussing this earlier in our coverage, whether they`re seeking assistance from the community for any aspect of this, whether it`s about further people they`ve identified or just anything the people may know in what let up to this, or anything else in the neighborhood afterward. This was as described, an active shooter scene, certainly mare harrowing. The scene we`re looking at now is both an eye on when we expect this outdoor press conference to commence and some of that footage that`s been cleared bystanders outside the scene in Boulder, Colorado.
So, we would expect them to at least have the bare bones of that portrait to share, both with the community and those interested around the nation following this tonight.
: And, Gadi, I want to -- we talk about the community as a whole. Paint us a little bit of a picture. What kind of neighborhood is this in Boulder? Is this sort of near the center of the city?
I mean, we`re seeing this sort of sky drone view, and I can`t quite tell what grocery store this is, but is this a busy part of town? Is it out on the ? Where are we in Boulder where this shooting has happened?
 It`s a King Soopers that is pretty busy, especially around this time. Just by seeing that livestream, there were a lot of people inside the store, a lot of people out in the parking lot as well. It`s not exactly in the middle of Boulder, it`s kind of on the outside of Boulder, but it is definitely in Boulder proper.
It took about two, three minutes for officers to get there, and then you`ve got several schools around the area, too, and so some of those schools had activities that were going on. Those activities were also put on lockdown. But right now there are just people starting to gather on the outskirts of that pretty massive perimeter just trying to hear anything they can about possible victims and about family members that they know may have been shopping inside that King Soopers there.
So, just a little while ago, we got a statement from the owner of King Soopers saying there are victims but they defer to the police for any information.
: This is tragic, unfortunately, again.

 "" starts right now.
Hello, my old fri.
 Hey, Alex. Nice to see you.
It all feels natural. Does it feel the same to you?
 Feels like -- I want to say feels like the first time. But that seems an inappropriate thing to say, and then I just said it.
 hour.
 Well, welcome back. You have been a guest on . So, any which way that it works.
Nice to see Alex Wagner.
Thank you.
I want to welcome everyone to . I`m.
And let me tell you, we have a lot going on in the program tonight.
First, we`re tracking a new push -- it`s getting real -- to maybe  Mitch McConnell`s filibuster tactics. And it`s by one of the most powerful Democrats in D.C., James Clyburn, and he`s here live on  tonight.
Also, Barack Obama speaking out. We will get into why later.
But we begin right now with this. Sedition, it is a grave crime. It is the crime of literally trying to overthrow the government or destroy the government. And as a legal matter, I can tell you, it`s rarely charged. It has not been charged yet in the MAGA insurrection at the Capitol on January .
And many experts do think and have been saying in public that one key measure of accountability for what we all saw and lived through would be throwing the book at those insurrectionists and indicting them for sedition, which would be a big deal.
Well, now the attorney who first oversaw the probe into all that, who was the top federal prosecutor in Washington, says sedition charges, in his view, should be on the way.

 I personally believe the evidence is tring towards that and probably meets those elements.
 Do you anticipate sedition charges against some of these suspects?
 I believe the facts do I support those charges. And I think that, as we go forward, more facts will support that.

 That`s Michael Sherwin.
He has a handle on more of those facts he just mentioned than just about any investigator who`s allowed under government rules to speak publicly, because he`s the guy who just literally ran that probe from its beginning.
And as a member of D.C. law enforcement, he was also the guy who was on the scene. He chose to check things out on foot, somewhat inconspicuously dressed in running gear, and tracked at the time in real time how certain individuals, he says, came decked out for crime and left that rally early.

 There was some people in tactical gear. They were tacked up with Kevlar vests. They had the military helmets on.
Those individuals, I noticed, left the speeches early. When I saw people climbing up the scaffolding hanging from it, hanging flags, I was like, this is going bad fast.

 That account comes as newly released audio is also relaying how some of those officers were trying to combat that very mob, "The New York Times" pairing its footage with this newly released police radio communication.

 Cruiser , they are scaling the scaffold! They are scaling the scaffold to the Capitol!
 We just had an explosive go on up here. I don`t if it`s fireworks or what, but they`re starting to throw explosives.
 Cruiser , they`re behind our lines!
 You need to pull back our resources, if you need to go inside or pull back, if they`re getting behind you. You don`t have enough resources.
 If I give this up, they are going to have direct access. We got to hold what we have.
 Cruiser , we`re flanked, -. I repeat, -, West Front of the Capitol. Cruiser , we have lost the line. We have lost the line.

 It`s disturbing. It`s harrowing. And, again, this is just little pieces of evidence, piece by piece, in the wider mosaic of what really went down.
The DOJ has said this is the most complex criminal investigation it`s ever had. And there`s much we don`t know about an event that did horrifically play out live for so many of us to watch that day.
As for Sherwin, he says in public now that investigators must probe everything. And that includes Donald Trump`s role.

 We have soccer moms from Ohio that were arrested, saying, well, I did this because my president said I have to take back our house.
That moves the needle towards that direction. Maybe the president is culpable for those actions, but also you see in the public record too militia members saying, you know what, we did this because Trump just talks a big game. He`s just all talk. We did what he wouldn`t do.
 In short, you have investigators looking into the president`s role?
 We have people looking at everything.

 We`re joined now by Neal Katyal, former acting solicitor general in the Obama administration, Eugene Robinson, Pulitzer Prize-winning columnist for "The Washington Post," and strategist Juanita Tolliver.
Nice to see all of you.
Neal, you have served in the Justice Department. What is the significance of this assessment from someone this high?
 I think it`s significant.
I mean, the investigation has been hamstrung since January  in ways. And I think I`m pleased to see now some talk of seditious conspiracy charges being brought, because, Ari, as you say, the statute, which is , doesn`t just -- it doesn`t just bar people who are agreeing to overthrow the government, but also people who try to take or possess any property of the United States by violent means.
And as the video you were just showing demonstrates, I think that`s happened. Having said that, I do have some reservations about Mr. Sherwin talking about the investigation in this way and then going on to say yesterday, oh, I`m not going to play Monday-morning quarterback and talk about all of the people who are let go.
I mean, the fact is, he was the chief law enforcement officer for D.C., and he let hundreds and hundreds of people go on January , and he said, I don`t want to play Monday-morning quarterbacking.
Give me a break. I mean, I just want like a first-grade touch football person to just look at this and say, this isn`t the way we behave. People talk about the Black Lives Matter arrests. But one other point of comparison is, in June of , when there was a protest at the Capitol about Trump`s immigration policies, and it was peaceful,  people were arrested, as opposed to, like, six on January .
 Yes, Neal, I was actually going to ask you about that. So I will go right to that now.
I mean, people watching this would wonder, gosh, which is it? Is it this James Comey rule that you can never talk about an open probe unless James Comey decides to, and then sometimes you make exceptions? Is it the rule of some folks we have seen in some U.S. attorney`s offices who really don`t talk, or others who talk out of pocket a lot?
Because any viewer would wonder. And that`s the question to you, Neal. Given that it`s an open probe, obviously, later, you could weigh in, but what do you think he`s up to weighing in now in such dramatic fashion?
 I`m not sure.
I mean, when I was at the Justice Department, we had a rule, we spoke through court and court only. I never spoke to the media once when I was there. Now, obviously, in some very extreme circumstances, you do have to say something to the media. But it`s not clear to me that this is by any stretch that.
This is more on brand for a Trump appointee, which this guy was in an acting capacity, which is, he`s on his way out, and he better talk to the media and get his profile up as he goes and interviews for private sector jobs or something.
I don`t know that this was authorized by his boss, the new U.S. attorney, Channing Phillips, who is an extraordinary prosecutor. And I think it is unwise. It`s not the way the Justice Department operates.
 Really interesting, especially the nuance on sort of the multiple aspects of it.
Gene Robinson, from a non-legal perspective, we know that the big words are what people want to hear when it comes to holding accountability. So we hear about treason, while, legally, it has a narrower definition. We hear about sedition, I think people know, sounds big, up to  years in prison for some of these folks.
What do you see as the wider import, if there`s going to be accountability, that they do throw the book at him?
 Well, I certainly think they should throw the book at them for what they did.
And what the specific charge ought to be, I -- you guys went to law school. I didn`t -- I`m not quite sure. Sedition is a weighted word and a weighted charge. And if it is applicable in this case -- and I think it very well might be -- we have to know that there`s a bright line between what was done and regular protest, vigorous protest of the government, which is protected, and which we should cherish.
And -- now, I do think there`s a there`s a bright line there. But I think that has to be very clear. We have to -- we have to know that. We have demonstrate that.
And I also think we have both gotten way too little and now way too much information about what`s going on in the investigation. There have been no sort of regular briefings from Capitol Police. We`re not really accountable from -- not much from D.C. police.
We just haven`t heard the story of what happened from official sources. We have had to try to piece it together. And so now prosecutor Sherwin on his way out says all sorts of things that we don`t have the fact base to check by.
So, it`s frustrating. It`s certainly frustrating to me as a journalist. I think it`s frustrating to me as a citizen.
 Juanita?
 I think, looking at this politically, this does align with some of the accountability that the general public wants to see, knowing now that there is evidence that these rioters have -- many of them conspired and planned for this insurrection to take place, is something that I think the general public appreciates hearing, per Eugene`s point about not having a steady drumbeat of active information coming out about what we know and don`t know about the rioters.
So I think this is something that we can expect to be playing on repeat, just like you played "The New York Times"` piece with that audio of officers, because this comes down to the people whose lives were angered, whether that`s Democrat or Republican members of Congress, whether that is staffers, whether that`s janitors, or the police who were assaulted.
Five lives were lost on that day. And so the public wants to hear a steady drumbeat. And so, for better or for worse, Sherwin`s interview provides some of that.
 Gene said not everyone went to law school. Well, here`s some free master class with Neal Katyal right now, because sedition is tricky, Neal.
Look at, for example, the Blind Sheik case, as it was called, a federal sedition prosecution  years ago that was successful. There was one about a decade ago that was not, Omar Abdel-Rahman -- I`m reading from "The Washington Post" summary -- and nine others convicted of trying to blow up the un, the FBI, bridges and tunnels as an effort to change policy towards the Middle East.
Neal, walk us through why, in that rare case, which was successful, it was critical to go beyond the bad stuff that anyone would say, gosh, if you tried to blow up a building, that`s bad. And it also had to link to what was provable about their motivation, the purpose of the bad stuff, Neal.
 Yes, so the doctrine of conspiracy is what we call an inchoate crime. So, you don`t actually have to do it.
So, Eugene and I can agree to rob a bank. We don`t have to pull it off. It`s still a crime. But we do have to have a pretty concrete plan in mind. And the reason why seditious conspiracy charges are rarely brought is because law enforcement typically intervenes before the crime happens, and -- the actual crime, and for all sorts of good reasons.
You don`t want to, like, wait until the person has to detonate the bomb or rob the bank or something like that. So that`s why these charges have failed. I think, most recently, the last case already was the one involving the Hutaree, the Christian militia in Michigan, in which seditious conspiracy charges were brought.
 Right.
 And it was rejected by the judge, because there wasn`t a concrete enough plan.
Here, however, there isn`t any guesswork involved. They carried out the plan. The invasion actually happened. And then they posted and bragged about it on Facebook, until they realized that they should go and delete their social media posts and things like that.
So, you don`t have that problem. And so, for that reason, it`s not surprising that the prosecutors are now looking at seditious conspiracy charges.
 Yes.
 This has an element the other ones didn`t have. It actually happened.
 I mean, I think that sounds right, Neal.
And I know that you can do -- in the commercial break, you can give a Gene a test on this, and we can find out on a future show how he did.

 We know him to be good with writing on any written exam.
Having said that, Gene, what about Neal`s point that, at the  of the day, it goes to, it`s -- if you do it, it`s going to go to a jury? And the point Neal makes, I think, is sound, that a jury, which is a group of non- lawyers, are going to say, well, did the act which we saw occur, the running of the -- running through the Congress, affect government policy?
And I don`t think you need to be an expert to know, oh, yes, they literally delayed the certification of Trump`s loss. And while it wasn`t a master strategy plan, it didn`t ultimately change who was going to go to the White House, the thing began to happen.
Gene, final thought.
 Yes. No, how concrete was the plan? I think that`s the that`s the question that Neal asked, and I remembered. I score  on that part of the test.

 And I think that`s the important thing, because, clearly, they wanted to stop the functioning of the U.S. government. They wanted to stop Congress from certifying the election for Joe Biden.
 Yes.
 I mean, that is clear. And so that element of the crime, I think, is clearly present.
But how concrete was the planning? So, we don`t know yet.
 Yes, all fair points on, again, the development, however controversial, of such a top prosecutor speaking out on sedition, potentially, as a charge for MAGA rioters.
I want to thank Neal and Gene for kicking us off. Juanita stays with us. In fact, we have more than one thing to talk about.
So, I will see you in a moment, indeed, in a half-a-moment, because our shortest break is just  seconds.
 Biden`s high approval ratings surging and Trump having a problem finding the next Trump.
We`re back in  seconds.

 We`re now  days into this Biden administration.
And there are signs that the new president is swiftly breaking through the polarized politics of the recent Trump era. One clear example, Joe Biden`s  percent approval is higher than Trump ever got in four years.
And headlines and newspapers are full of references to the Biden checks and this stimmies, in "The New York Times" today, how people are sping what they loosely or casually call their stimmy checks around any goals they may have financially.
Now, these kinds of stories not only show that government can work, but also suggests that, even if you don`t hear about Biden as much as Trump, maybe that`s because he`s actually working and governing, instead of tweeting.
Meanwhile, many of the Republicans jostling to be the next Trump are finding his sought-after praise does not help that much.

 I`m orsing people that I have -- that have been good for us and good for the Republican Party.
We have a lot of young good people. Ron DeSantis is doing a really good job in Florida. And I think Josh Hawley has shown some real courage in going after big tech.
You know, somebody that`s been really terrific is Ted Cruz. Rand Paul has been great. A lot of very good people, really very good people. The Republican Party is stacked.

 The Trumpiest Republicans, though, are having some of the worst problems right now.
Cruz`s approval, just named-check, down double digits since fleeing to Cancun. Florida Governor DeSantis, name-checked, well, he`s got his own COVID scandal, or Missouri Senator Josh Hawley under scrutiny, with the talk of sedition for fanning the very flames of everything that happened that fateful day on January .
I`m joined now by Obama pollster Cornell Belcher. And, as mentioned, back with us, Juanita Tolliver.
Cornell, your thoughts on what it means to have those Republicans specifically trying to be Trumpy in so much hot water?
 Well, I think it says something to the broader problem that I think is -- we`re going to see with the Republican Party, is all those characters that you just named our in political hot water.
And, more broadly, the mainstream and indepent voters are -- they aren`t beloved of mainstream moderate indepent voters. They are beloved with Trump`s base, but that`s part of the problem right now. And you get sort of the Bushes and, once upon a time, Governor Kasich, who was a mainstream Republican who many of us thought would be certainly maybe a Republican nominee for president once again, these people have been pushed aside by the Cruzes and the Hawleys and the Rand Pauls, who -- and look, I`m not being partisan here.
They lessen the ability of the Republican Party to expand to be a bigger party. And if you look at the Republican Party right now, they have lost, what, Ari, four of the last five popular votes right now. It`s hard to see how a Cruz or a Hawley gets you back to a majority party in this country.
 Well, Juanita, if you listen to Cornell, it sounds like he`s saying mo` MAGA, mo` problems.

 Come on,
Like -- look, they don`t score any points with this Trump orsement, by any means. But I think it does show that Trump still believes he wields some type of influence over the voters that he did bring to the Republican Party.
I agree with Cornell on the fact that, with this type of leadership, with these type of individuals at the front of their party, that have nothing substantive to offer. They`re not doing any legislative work. They`re continuing to obstruct processes and fan flames.
But, again, they are not helping Americans. And that`s why I think we`re seeing the Biden bump, whereas they`re declining, because people have explicit needs right now. And Biden is delivering on those needs, checks being in bank people`s bank accounts, schools reopening safely, vaccines going into people`s arms.
That`s what we`re seeing as a positive influence. And I think that`s the type of energy that, if Democrats, the Biden administration keep providing tangible benefits, tangible outcomes for the American public, then they will be in a good position going into the midterms.
 Yes, and it`s really not monolithic either.
Thinking about the numbers, Cornell, I want to ask you about some of the other elements of the polling here. Biden`s surge includes younger Americans, most of whom now say he`s doing a good job. That`s a strong majority there, along with a majority of Republicans who back COVID relief.
And so, Cornell, what you see emerging is not people just saying, oh, I like what`s like me. We make mistakes when we assume too much about voting groups. Young people know that Joe Biden is not a super young candidate. Republicans know -- if they know anything about him, they know he`s not a Democrat. I mean -- excuse me -- he`s not a Republican. He`s a Democrat.
So, they`re not just saying, oh, I like myself represented, although that can be important. They`re also looking at the first  days here and seeing, hey, some of this is working, apparently, in their view, Cornell.
 Well, I think it`s a little bit more than that, even, Ari, because as someone who studies these tr lines, I got to tell you, in "The Hill"`s paper, newspaper, put out a poll today. And it had him at  percent. And so he`s constantly between -- somewhere between ,  and  percent.
And, usually, historically, you see the president early on, they will get a bump. You will see a rallying effect, and why so many presidents like to use -- try to get big things done quickly, because you do have a rallying effect around the president.
I am surprised at how consistently Biden has scored approval ratings almost in the  percentages. Quite frankly, I didn`t think you would see it again. He is dominating the moderate middle swathe of the electorate, in a way that I have not seen a president do in over a decade.
He`s doing -- he`s running up the score with indepents in a way that I have not seen -- I didn`t even see Obama do. And lord knows I love President Obama. I think he`s a transformational president.
But there`s something about Biden, sort of that comforting -- maybe it`s comforting old white guy, that has the sort of that moderate indepent swathe of voters rallying to him in a way that breaks partisanship.
But it also goes back around to my earlier point, is that the Trumpism is pushing indepent voters more to the Democratic camp in a way that we hadn`t seen in a good while.
And one last point here about the young voters. I think Republicans think that Baby Boomers are the center of the universe. And the truth of the matter is, if you look at Gen Z, and you look at the millennials right now, they are a larger swathe -- they`re the largest swathe of the electorate right now.
And their inability to compete for those voters, even against an old guy like Joe Biden, I think speaks volumes.
 Yes, all really good points in terms of where we`re headed.
As promised, a very quick piece of business. But I`m happy to make the announcement here on . Juanita Tolliver is now formally an  political analyst. We`re announcing that tonight.
We have loved having you on, Juanita. So, congratulations. Hope you feel good about it.
 Thanks so much, I feel great about it, thrilled to be joining the  family.
 Absolutely.
I teased that earlier in the show, as we say in TV, so I wanted to make that announcement, thank Juanita and thank Cornell.
Thanks to both of you.
As mentioned, we have a lot in the program.
We`re also getting some news right now that we want to tell you about is breaking news. We are monitoring what is being described as a shooting situation at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado.
Now, this is initial reporting that states that an individual opened fire first in the parking lot, and police arrived on the scene and firing commenced.
Now, moments ago, we also, according to our cameras, were able to detect someone being put into an ambulance. No official word on injuries or deaths.
I`m joined now by Jim Kavanaugh, a retired ATF agent and  analyst.
Jim, as I mentioned, and as viewers know from these type of situations, sadly, we do cover them as the ongoing public health crisis of guns in America. This is a breaking story. There`s much we don`t know yet. What do you see from the little that is available?
 Well, first of all, I see Boulder police did a pretty good job here, because the reports were that the suspect fired on the patrol officers when they arrived at the supermarket.
I don`t think NBC has confirmed, but there`s reports, news reports about an AR- rifle and body armor. We will see if that holds true.
A lot of times, these guys are suicidal. So, what the law enforcement is going to have to do, Ari, is go back to his home`s car, sweep for bombs, and see if there`s any other victims. When somebody is out in the public shooting like that, sometimes, domestic violence starts to thing, and there`s people shot or murdered at home.
So they have got to sweep explosives in the car, sweep for explosives at his residence, and then check for any other victims. And they are going to be doing that pretty rapidly.
 Yes.
And what we`re seeing in some of the reports -- and, again, we`re not -- I`m looking at some of our materials, but we`re not repeating anything until we have full confirmations.
But when authorities look at this, how do they figure it out -- based on the public information, as well as what they have on the scene, what do they know about and how do they secure the area? What do they know about whether it`s one shooter, or how do they determine or confirm security on the site?
 The on-scene commander gets all the patrol officers, calls in SWAT. And SWAT does a sweep of the whole supermarket, adjacent parking lots and buildings. They got to find if there`s any other shooters. They got to find if there`s any explosive devices, and they got to find his vehicle or accomplices.
So, they`re sweeping. They`re doing all that. They`re probably still doing it, because SWAT will take an ever wider circle. They have got to locate. They have got to isolate. They have got to evacuate. And they got to eliminate the threat.
And if he`s the only guy, that`s already been done, but they don`t know that yet. So, good police practices, good SWAT commanders, on-scene commanders, they`re going to be sweeping an ever-widening perimeter until they`re sure.
And, also, detectives and bomb squad officers are going to be going to his residence, which may be who knows where, Ari? I mean, it could be in the city, in another county or even another state. And so there`s going to be law enforcement spinning up, state police, the federales, I mean, ATF, FBI are going to be all spun up helping out and trying to make sure there`s no accomplices, nobody else doing anything that might be trying to kill somebody.
Is this just a guy copycatting the hate crime, the vicious hate crime in Atlanta? And it is a hate crime, by the way, and we should be all saying it publicly, whether or not the prosecutors charge it. There`s more than enough probable cause to charge it. They may not charge it because they don`t think they have proof beyond a reasonable doubt to win a case like that.
But it is probably, and probable cause, a hate crime targeting those Asian spas.
But is this guy just a copycat shooter for just vulgar violence? Or is he targeting certain people? I mean, who is he wanting to kill? There`s a lot to be known that we got to find out this evening about this.
 And, Jim, I have to ask you, do you have video return?
Are you seeing what we`re seeing in our overhead video or not?
 Yes, I`m seeing it.
 So, just wanted to confirm that before I have you analyze it.
I mean, what do you see in the significance of the way that the scene looks there? Because we saw the overhead camera footage of what looks like an individual being loaded into an ambulance. We have -- again, we`re not -- NBC News not confirming yet who that individual is. But you have that individual going in.
And you had what looked like police. Again, I`m curious what your law enforcement expertise says. But the police at that juncture looked relatively calm. For example, this is the file footage we`re replaying.
They`re walking an individual out there. There are some police that have guns drawn, but it does not look, at least to the layperson`s eyes, like they`re in an active mode anymore outside. They look -- it looked almost calm, if you could say that.
But your thoughts on what we`re seeing on playback?
 Yes, I think -- yes, exactly.
I mean, I think this area, they believe, is secure. This may be the shooter. We don`t know. It looks like he`s handcuffed. This is someone certainly they have arrested. And it may be the shooter. He has just shorts, pants on, looks like no shirt. We don`t know if that`s the shooter. That could be somebody they come across. They don`t know.
He doesn`t -- they don`t know what he did or what he was. There was a man, a husband of one of the victims in Atlanta. Ari, who was handcuffed for a number of hours after that massacre down there. The police don`t know who the killer could be.
And so there`s someone there. They don`t know. They secure them. They`re trying to keep everybody safe. They`re trying to sort out the mess. But, yes, this area here, this outer perimeter here is secure as far as the on- scene commanders are -- know.
That`s why they`re letting their officers operate that way. And they`re operating with this guy. They probably have a pretty good feeling he`s the lone actor. I mean, I think that`s probably what we`re -- we can surmise that they don`t believe there`s a second person.
But, now, they will still be searching. They will still be sweeping. They will still be checking. But they may feel like this is probably the one actor, if it`s that man or another man. We don`t know. We don`t know if it`s this man.
 Understood.
And the final question in this report, and we`re going to keep an eye on this as we get readouts from authorities. The question is, what should people expect from here under the way they do this, Jim, if -- as you say, we have not identified who this individual is, but they -- look to be an individual under arrest, under some distress.
There was some marking on the leg. Hard to make out from this view exactly what it was. And they have loaded them into the ambulance. What else will be happening in the minutes and hours ahead?
 Well, as I discussed, the bomb squads, the detectives are sweeping the area.
But good professional police practice is a good early public statement to assure the public what`s going on. If they think there`s -- know there`s one shooter, tell the public there`s one shooter. They got to notify the next of kin if there`s any deceased or wounded. So, if they have to set up a family center there, they need to, so people can come and talk to the officers directly about family members who could have been killed or injured.
And they need to tell the public what`s going on. If they have a charge on the guy, put it out early. He`s charged with X. Let the public know. That`s how you allay the fears.
And if there`s other things they need help from the public, it`s to get out there early, leverage the public, who wants to help the police. I mean, it`s the strongest thing the police have, just like I know you were covering the Capitol riots. The FBI is putting out all those insurrectionists and putting their pictures out.
Leverage the help you`re going to get when a crime like this happens in the community. Everybody wants to help you. Leverage it. Get out early, get the information, get it tamped down, and keep everybody safe. That`s what they got to do, if they`re operating quick.
If they delay the presser for too long, they lose that momentum. The public is interested. They want to help, so get out there fast.
 Longtime ATF agent Jim Kavanaugh, who`s been with us on many of these types of stories, thank you for your expertise.
We`re monitoring the reports of the active shooter in Boulder, Colorado. We`re keeping an eye on what we can learn from authorities. We have our local reporters on it. So, this is what we know right now. And we will update tonight on , as well as across , when we learn more about that incident.
Our coverage continues now. In fact, a guest that I mentioned earlier in the program, we`re thrilled to have on tonight is Congressman James Clyburn. Now, he`s one of the most high-ranking Democrats in Washington. He`s also known for that big role that he did play in reenergizing Joe Biden`s  campaign after Biden came in fifth in New Hampshire.
Well, now Clyburn appears to be sping some of his own political capital by pushing Democrats to play hardball, if needed, to break through Mitch McConnell`s obstruction and reforming the rules, if that`s what it takes to protect fundamental rights, D.C. member of House leadership, joins me now.
And, for context, everyone, here is what Congressman Clyburn has been saying.

 I didn`t march in the streets and spent nights in jail as a young man to find myself fighting the same battles generations later.
The Senate must eliminate the -vote threshold to  the filibuster on voting rights and civil rights legislation.

 And, as promised, Congressman Clyburn joins us now.
Thanks for being here, sir.
 Well, thank you very much for having me.
 Congressman, this seems important to you. It seems personal.
And I don`t have to remind viewers, although I did, the link that you have with President Biden. Tell us what you`re advocating right now.
 Well, you know, Ari, the discussion about the filibuster has been going on for a long, long time, over a century.
The fact of the matter is, the filibuster came into being in the early s. And it was supposed to be to ext debate, to protect the rights of the minority. And that`s fine, if you`re exting the debate.
But if you are using the technicality of a -vote rule to sit in your office somewhere or maybe go on vacation, and put a hold on somebody or something, that, to me, is a big, big problem.
Now, when Strom Thurmond set the filibuster record, he was on the floor over  hours, standing on the floor, exting the debate. That`s fine.
But what we`re doing now is stopping fundamental constitutional rights. To have one person, for instance -- I will call his name -- Ron  of Wisconsin, who`s already demonstrated to us what he really thinks about people of color, when he would not be as threatened by insurrectionists, but would be threatened about people of color if they are demonstrating on the Capitol grounds.
You think that guy is going to relent and allow people of color to have their constitutional voting rights, their civil rights? No.
So, why should we empower these kind of people if they should get elected to office?
So, that`s what has got me a little bit miffed, when we sit here and say that someone`s constitutional right to have an unfettered vote is threatened, we are going to allow that to continue with a filibuster. No, that cannot be.
 It seems to me you`re speaking very clearly, sir, here with two points.
It`s not even about debate when it`s being abused this way. And how much power should Democrats allow people who are going to demagogue and attack the hard-earned voting rights of regular people in this nation?
With that in mind, can you give us a window into, have you discussed this recently with the president, or will you?
 Well, I have not discussed it with the president, but I have discussed it with some of the president`s people.
I do believe that the president has got a whole lot to do. He doesn`t need to be talking to me.

 But the people who are helping him to carry out his aga, I do talk to some of them. And I would hope that they would understand.
I have got children. I have got grandchildren. I don`t want my grandchildren fighting the same battles that I fought as a teenager, along with John Lewis and many others, going to jail, trying to get the right to vote.
And here we are all of a sudden going to have someone stand up and says, no, your vote won`t count. All you got to do is look at what happened in . They were not challenging the votes in white precincts. Fulton County. Georgia. They`re out there in -- up there in Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, Detroit, Michigan, challenging the votes in African-American precincts.
So, we know what they`re doing. And I cannot see us standing idly by and say we are going to respect the rights of the majority -- of the minority. It is a minority of the voters that is causing the problem.
So, we`re going to respect the rights of the minority that`s trying to prevent the majority from voting? I don`t think so. Let`s think about what we are saying here.
So, when anybody says I got to look out for my minority voters, I`m going to ask you, aren`t I a minority voter?
 Yes.
I mean, look, you speak very clearly, sir. I will tell you, some of these politicians, some senators, it`s hard to follow sometimes what they`re even saying about the parliamentarian thicket. You have really boiled it down. I think viewers can hear what you`re saying about whether this is going to be fair or not.
I want to put to you what Mitch McConnell says, because, notwithstanding all the arguments you just made, the Republican leader says, careful what you wish for, he will make it even worse if you went through with this reform to  the abuse of these obstruction tactics.
Take a listen to Mitch McConnell.

 Nobody serving in this chamber can even begin, can even begin to imagine what a completely scorched earth Senate would look like.

 Congressman, he seems to be saying if they do what you`re calling for, he will burn the place down, scorch it.
Your response, sir.
 Well, I seem to recall a summer known as Mississippi Burning.
If that`s what he`s talking about -- and I mentioned that on the floor on Friday. We are talking about fundamental voting rights. If you want to ext debate on an issue, a legislative issue, then that`s fine.
But we`re talking about people`s right to vote. That is what is at question here, having your votes counted, having someone pass a law that says you cannot vote on Sunday. You cannot have Souls to the Polls anymore. You cannot give someone water who`s standing in line to vote.
You have got lines  and  hours` long. Someone gets thirsty, it`s going to be a crime if I give them a bottle of water? That`s the kind of foolishness that`s going on down there in Georgia and they`re going in other places as well.
And so we`re going to say, when we try to find a cure for that at the federal level, we are going to let that be filibustered by those people who are sensitive to that kind of obnoxious laws being passed in a state.
Look, we have only  Democrats. There are two Democrats who said they`re against the filibuster for this. But there -- I know two Democrats who made up the  that will suffer if we allow this to happen, and they won`t be in office any longer. We all know that.
So, it is time for us to just say, we are not going to allow a filibuster to deny basic constitutional rights like voting.
 Yes.
And when you put it on that plank and that focus, which you and Stacey Abrams and Warnock have discussed, it would seem to be much harder for anyone to honestly oppose that, because it goes to whether we have a democracy for all or not.
Congressman Clyburn, good to see you again, sir. I hope you will come back on .
 Look forward to it. Thank you very much for having me.
 Thank you.
Up ahead, we have an important story on labor tonight with a special expert.
And we will have more of the breaking news coverage with police on the scene of this reported active shooter in Boulder, Colorado.
Stay with us.

 Breaking news.
We`re now awaiting a formally scheduled police press conference that will occur in Boulder, Colorado. This is after, as we have been reporting, an apparent shooting at a grocery store. Police are calling it still a -- quote -- "active scene." They`re instructing people to avoid the area.
No official word on anything about injuries or deaths yet. We don`t have confirmed information that. Initial reports did state that an individual opened fire in the parking lot and, when police arrived on the scene, they were firing on the officers, that individual.
So, we do have those reports of shots fired and exchanged. We were reporting on this. And moments ago, we did see through our camera footage someone being put into an ambulance. I want to note what we said at the time. NBC News still cannot confirm that person`s identity, that is to say, the role they may or may not have played in any of the incident.
We just have the footage. Our reporters are working on it. And, as mentioned,  will be bringing further coverage of this as we learn anything from authorities in the moments ahead.
 There have been reports of these soaring profits during the pandemic, especially for tech companies. Now there are calls for a greater reckoning.
Bernie Sanders and others saying there are ways to fix a big problem. And we have a very special guest next.

 Turning to one of the biggest stories in pandemic America that you don`t always hear about, a new focus on how Amazon treats its workers, those who make Jeff Bezos so rich.
And the issue has been even more important during a pandemic, when people need a mobile economy. Senator Sanders arguing this situation underscores something wrong, not only with Amazon the company, but how the entire economy runs.

 The wealthiest person in the world, Jeff Bezos, has become $ billion richer during this horrific pandemic, while denying hundreds of thousands of workers who work at Amazon paid sick leave and hazard pay.

 And this isn`t just some sort of debate in Washington, Amazon workers in Alabama fighting to unionize, while the company opposes it.

 Mr. Bezos, you are worth $ billion. You`re the wealthiest person in the world. Why are you doing everything in your power to stop your workers in Bessemer, Alabama, from joining a union?

 Let`s get into it.
 Winning and Losing in One-Click America."
Thanks for being here.
 Thank you, Thanks for having me.
 We wanted to talk to you because you have been looking so deeply at this. Amazon touches so many people`s lives. Anyone can see, that level of billions against evictions and against food lines, there seems to be something off.
Is that the right way to look at this or not?
 It is a good way to look at this, there`s no question.
I mean, when I started working on this book a few years ago, I had no idea that it would be so topical now, that we`d be coming out of a year where Amazon would have grown so much more,. It`s really hard for us to grasp just how profitable this past year was for the company, when we were all -- so many of us were  laptop.
The company`s sales up  percent, Bezos` wealth up $ billion, $ billion over the year, deping on how you count it, the stock way up, hundreds of thousands more employees hired.
They did get an extra couple dollars early in the pandemic, sort of a bump that they got early for a month or two there. But that was then taken away.
And now we have this extraordinary union fight. And this is really -- it`s hard to overstate just how huge the stakes are right now in Alabama, that there`s actually now, for the first time, a big election at an Amazon warehouse.
These jobs, these Amazon jobs, really are kind of the new mass work force in America. This is where so many people now going to work. No longer is it the steel mill or the mall job. Now it`s these jobs.
And they`re not as well-paid as the steel jobs were, and they`re much more taxing, physically taxing, than the retail jobs were. If we can sort of lift up these jobs, and how much they`re paid, and what the conditions are in these jobs, it would make a big difference for  Americans.
 Yes.
And some companies say, well, we deliver this low-cost service that`s so critical. Everyone used it this last year, so, what are you complaining about?
But when you see the tens of billions, it seems like Mr. Bezos, who now says he wants to do more charity, could green-light unionization or union- style support for his employees and still turn a hearty profit, no?
 It is hard to look at it at those gains, the $ billion, $ billion year gains for this one person, and think that they can`t afford a little bit more.
But this is actually -- this is about more than -- really more than just the added pay that might come from a union election in Alabama. It`s also about really just the say that workers are going to have in these warehouses. These warehouses are incredibly regimented. There`s incredibly high productivity expectations.
That`s why they`re so difficult, these jobs. That`s why they have such high turnover. So, for workers to get that kind of say, that kind of voice at the table, that`s also something that company, it`s very resistant to.
It will really kind of change the whole way that these warehouses are run if you also now have this other voice at the table demanding to be heard.
 Yes, I think you laid that out.
This is obviously just a sliver of Alex`s book. And when we think about journalism, when we think about holding the powerful accountable, it`s important to support and check out some of these important books, which is why we`re spotlighting them.
 Winning and Losing in One-Click America."
You can check it out for yourself. You can buy it online or at a local bookstore.
Alec, thank you, sir.
We will be back with one more thing.

 An update on a story we have been monitoring.
We are now awaiting a police press conference after the shooting at a grocery store in Boulder, Colorado.
Moments ago, we got some of the first public words from a witness describing what he saw.

 How many bodies did you -- people did you see, victims did you see outside?
 I only saw three victims.
 Two outside?
 Two outside and one directly inside.
 So, tell me what`s going through your mind as you`re seeing all this.
 I mean, there`s no doubt in my mind. I understood what was happening. It was an active shooter situation.
I didn`t know what type of active shooter, if it was an employee or a customer or what it was. So, I didn`t really have time to think, really, more than that.
 Could you believe you were seeing what you were seeing?
 Yes, I mean, I wouldn`t have believed it if I hadn`t seen it and heard it myself.

 Good evening, Rachel.
It turns out all of our guests are of Asian descent and expert about what we`ve been seeing in Atlanta except for one guest, which is, of course, Senator Jon Ossoff, who will be joining us and also discussing the situation in Atlanta and the situation in the United States Senate. So, it`s --
 Excellent.
 -- a night of serious reflection on a situation that really now needs our attention.
 Absolutely. Get to it, my fri. Thank you, .
 Thank you, Rachel.
Well, Katherine Tai was born in Connecticut to parents who were born in China. Katherine Tai went to college in Connecticut, at Yale, and then to Harvard Law School. She became an expert in trade and she served in the Bush administration as general counsel to the United States trade representative. United States Trade Representative is a cabinet level position. General counsel is a very important job.
She continued as counsel to the trade representative during the Obama administration when the trade representative was an Obama appointee. And then she became the trade counsel to the House Ways and Means Committee, which has jurisdiction over international trade.
Today, Katherine Tai made history when she became the first member of the Biden cabinet to be confirmed unanimously by the United States Senate. The Senate has never confirmed a more qualified U.S. trade representative.
As United States trade representative, Katherine Tai is the only member of the Biden cabinet of Asian descent. The Senate unanimously confirming the first Asian woman ever to serve as the U.S. trade representative is something Joe Biden would want to celebrate, but today was not the day for that.
St. Patrick`s Day is something that Joe Biden always celebrates, but today, before he publicly shared St. Patrick`s sentiment with the Irish prime minister, President Biden had to speak about the latest mass murder in America in which six of the eight victims were women of Asian descent.

 Whatever the motivation here, I know that Asian-Americans are in very -- very concerned because, as you know, I`ve been speaking about the brutality against Asian-Americans for the last couple of months. And I think it is very, very troubling.

 -year-old Delaina Ashley Yaun, - year-old Daoyou Feng, -year-old Xiaojie Yan and -year-old Paul Andre Michels.
The murderer then drove  miles and shot people at businesses across the street from each other. All of those victims, those victims were women, and three of them were women of Asian descent. Those names have not yet been made public.
Police posted images of the murderer at the scene on social media, and they say they were quickly contacted by the family of Robert Aaron Long. Police credit the family with being very helpful in his apprehension. Police tracked his cell phone and set up a roadblock south of Atlanta where they captured the suspect.
Today, in Atlanta, Mayor Keisha Lance Bottoms held a news conference with all the jurisdictions involved.

 Good morning, everyone.
I first like to begin by offering my condolences to the family, fris and colleagues of those who were killed and injured yesterday. Captain Baker shared with us that they determined that the suspect was on his way to Florida, I believe and perhaps to carry out additional shootings. So, again, it really speaks to the coordination and the quick response from law enforcement. For as tragic as this was on yesterday in metro Atlanta, this could have been significantly worse.
 Once we were able to get our information and gather our information, coordinate with Cherokee County, we immediately put that out metro wide, having conversations, again as I stated with our federal and state local partners, all immediately asked what could they do. All resources immediately started getting involved so that we could get -- bring this to a quick closure.
 When I spoke with investigators. They interviewed him this morning. And they got that impression, yes, he understood the gravity of it, and he was pretty much fed up, had been at the  of his rope and yesterday was a really bad day for him and this is what he did.
 Remorseful?
 I`m not going to go to -- I don`t know if he was remorseful or not.
 Obviously, whatever the motivation was for this guy, we know that many of the victims, the majority of the victims were Asian. We also know that this is an issue that`s happening across the country. It is unacceptable. It is hateful, and it has to stop.

 Leading off our discussion tonight, NBC News correspondent Kathy Park, live from one of the shooting locations in Atlanta. And Georgia State Representative Sam Park. His district is located in Gwinnett County in the Atlanta metro area.
Kathy, let me begin with you. And what new evidence or late-breaking developments there might be in the case tonight.
 , good evening to you.
I am standing in the middle of two crime scenes. Behind me is one of the locations where the gunman entered, killing three women and then across from me is another spa where the gunman killed another person. And, you know, the investigation is still ongoing.
He told officials that this was not racially motivated. In fact, he had some sort of sexual addiction and revisited some of these spas, which he had gone to in the past as a way to lash out and eliminate some of his tencies. And, you know, the Asian community is reeling, because there has been a surge, in anti-Asian attacks over the past year, close to ,.
This really is just painful. I mean, I was scrolling through social media. You have a lot of high-profile Asian-Americans sounding off, saying enough is enough. They are hurting. This community is hurting, and this is resonating across the country, .
 And, Representative Park, I just want to leave you an open microphone to give us your reaction to this in any way that you think is important.
 Thank you for having me, .
First and foremost we want to offer condolences to the victims, families and loved ones. There`s a lot of fear and pain within a lot of Asian communities here in Georgia and across the country. You know, we need to do everything that we can to alleviate these concerns, ensure that justice is delivered and continue to address that this rise in xenophobia and anti- Asian hate that has devastated so many of our communities.
 Kathy, I`ve been watching your coverage on this starting last night, all day on this network. You`ve been delivering us all the facts, everything we know about it so far. But I`m wondering, as you cover it, what your feelings are about this story that you are now so close to.
 You know, , I`m glad you asked that. I am a New York- based correspondent. I have to say as a journalist covering this and just seeing the amount of headlines that have come out in the past couple of weeks even with the surge in these types of attacks, now I have to say I am more aware of the color of my skin because I question, am I going to be the next victim even when I walk around this city alone. It`s something that is in the back of my mind.
This is something I haven`t had to do in the  years that I`ve been on this earth, quite frankly. I`ve lived in very diverse communities. Yes, there have been some issues of racism in the past, but nothing that hits this close to home that`s so scarring. And I think that`s why so many people are speaking out and speaking up. The fact that the #stopasianhate is tring is beyond belief. It`s hard to believe we are at this point -- .
 And, Representative Park, what`s your reaction to the way police presented what they`ve done so far today?
 Some of the comments made by the sheriff were concerning, saying this was the result of someone having a bad day. I think a lot of Asian- Americans felt that was offensive, quite frankly.
This isn`t the first time Asian-Americans have faced violence. We have a history of systemic racism and exclusion, but one of the things I want to get across especially to Asian-Americans who may be feeling scared during this period of time is to hang in there. We will overcome, we will persevere and emerge stronger as we`ve done before.
 I want to listen to something that mayor bottoms said about those comments that a lot of people have reacted to the officer who we just heard say, as he was describing the things that the murderer confessed to, he said, he had a bad day. Wasn`t clear whether he was making that as an evaluation or whether he was, in a loose way, quoting the murderer.
But here is what Mayor Bottoms said about those comments.

 I know in my conversations before we went out, that was not the sentiment that I felt in our conversations. I know that there was sympathy and empathy toward the victims and their families and, you know, perhaps he could have said it better with the cameras there. But I think the most important part that we have to focus on is that this guy is off of the street.

 Representative Park, what was your reaction to that?
 You know, I would agree with Mayor Bottoms that I`m happy he is off the street, but still we have to do a lot more work to address the very real fear that a lot of Asian-Americans are currently experiencing, just to simply walk outside their door. I hope our law enforcement officials will recognize that and act, and speak accordingly.
 Georgia State Representative Sam Park, I`m very sorry for what your community and you are dealing with tonight. We really appreciate you joining us tonight.
And NBC`s Kathy Park, thank you very much for all of your coverage on this and for joining us tonight. Really appreciate it, Kathy.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Georgia Senator Jon Ossoff will join us next.

 Every good thing that has happened in the federal government since January th happened because Joe Biden and Kamala Harris were sworn in as president and vice president, and Jon Ossoff and Raphael Warnock were sworn in as the two new senators from Georgia on January th.
Without those two new senators, most of the Biden cabinet would not have been confirmed, no Biden legislation would have been signed into law by now. You would not be looking at $, deposited in your account by the United States treasury. You would not be getting a $, child tax credit for your children, schools would not be getting federal help to reopen.
All elections matter, not just presidential elections. All elections matter. And nothing has proved that more vividly than the wins by the new Democratic senators from Georgia.
Raphael Warnock was the first to be declared the winner of a Senate seat on the election night in Georgia, January th. It was not until the next day when Chuck Schumer was in hiding, because a Trump mob attacked the Capitol, that we learned that Jon Ossoff was declared the winner in his Senate race in Georgia.
And Jon Ossoff`s win made Chuck Schumer the new majority leader of the United States Senate.
Senator`s first speech on the Senate floor is a momentous occasion for that senator, but usually not many other people pay attention. New senators take weeks, sometimes months thinking about that first speech before they stand and deliver it.
Senator Warnock was the first of the two new Georgia senators scheduled to speak on the Senate floor. Senator Ossoff is not yet scheduled to speak on the Senate floor. Senator Ossoff is still thinking about that first speech he will deliver. Both of Georgia`s new senators, who decided the control of the Senate, will now command the Senate`s attention whenever they rise to speak.
Senator Warnock began his first Senate speech today by acknowledging the tragedy in Georgia.

 Mr. President, before I begin my formal remarks, I want to pause to condemn the hatred and violence that took eight precious lives last night in metropolitan Atlanta. I grieve with Georgians, with Americans, with people with love all across the world. This unspeakable violence visited largely upon the Asian community is one that causes all of us to recommit ourselves to the way of peace, an act of peace that prevents these kinds of tragedies from happening in the first place. We pray for these families.

 Joining us now is Senator Jon Ossoff of Georgia.
Senator, thank you very much for joining us tonight. I know this is your first television appearance in primetime cable and it`s an honor to have you joining us here for that. But it comes on a tragic night in Georgia after a tragic day in Georgia yesterday.
What can you share with us? What do you know about the situation and the investigation, which includes a federal component?
 Well, , great to see you. And thank you for the invitation to join you tonight.
I was briefed throughout the evening last night and throughout the day today by my team on the progress of the initial investigation into these atrocities committed in Georgia yesterday.
And, look, what I want to say is this -- first and foremost, Georgia has been rocked by these appalling acts of murder and violence. Whatever the suspect`s motive -- and police and prosecutors are still investigating it - - whatever animus, whatever ideology, whatever may have driven him, the Asian-American community in Georgia, the Asian-American community across the country is reeling, is deeply concerned and feeling fear and apprehension for the safety of Asian-Americans in American society.
And I just want to express my love, support and compassion for everybody across the country, everybody in Georgia who is feeling that fear and apprehension. I have confidence that justice will be done. I have been heartened by Mayor Bottoms` initiative and heartened by how our whole community in Georgia, people of all faiths and backgrounds, have united to condemn these atrocities, to demand justice and to speak in support of and in solidarity with the Asian-American community at home.
 I want to get your reaction to the controversial comments that one of the officers made in the briefing today to the news media. A lot of people have picked up on this. A lot of Asian-Americans are upset with this language where he was describing what the murderer had confessed to and what he had told them about his day leading up to committing those murders.
And the officer concluded that passage by saying yesterday was a really bad day for him and this is what he did.
What was your reaction to those remarks?
 Well, I can`t speak to what was going through the sheriff or sheriff deputies` mind, addressing the press in that way. We can`t diminish that we`re talking about murder. We`re talking about brutality. We`re talking about the loss of eight lives and the devastation for families and an entire community, this violence that ripped through Metropolitan Atlanta last night against the backdrop of growing harassment, intimidation, attacks on Asian-Americans across the country and against the backdrop of an increase in violence across our nation over the last year that has many communities feeling deeply insecure.
We`ve had two weeks in Atlanta in the last month with more than a dozen shootings. And as I sat on the Senate floor this morning and listened to my colleague, my brother, my fri, Senator Rever Raphael Warnock, call upon our better angels, exhort the people to seek peace and call for public policy that brings us together and lifts us all up, that brings justice where there is violence and murder and that unites this country with common purpose, love and compassion, I felt moved that we have such a voice speaking on behalf of the people of Georgia at such a moment as this, when that`s precisely the message that`s called for.
We have to be resolute and determined in the face of violence. And we have to recommit to loving each other and defining this country based upon that mutual love and compassion.
 You know, most first speeches by freshmen senators are completely ignored by the news media, but you and Senator Warnock became instant stars in the Senate by determining the power structure of the Senate and giving the power to the Democrats. So, there`s a real spotlight on both of you.
Senator Warnock got that today, used it brilliantly in the way he delivered his remarks.
Do you both feel an extra pressure because of both the attention that you get and the -- basically the way you changed the Senate simply by getting elected?
 Well, first, let`s just take a moment, , and reflect on the fact that the state of Georgia, with our deeply complex, painful, contradictory history as the cradle of the civil rights movement and the heart of the Old Confederacy, a state where in  the temple, my temple was bombed by white supremacists and just one year later Dr. King established the SCLC. The state of Georgia sent a black preacher and a young Jewish man to represent it in the U.S. Senate. Georgia today speaking on the floor of the Senate had the senior pastor at Ebenezer Baptist Church, a man of God who holds the same pulpit Dr. King did, addressing the United States Senate and the nation with words of healing and resolve. It is a revolution in Georgia politics.
And when I really felt most profoundly the significance of our victories was when, after more than  hours of debate, we passed the American Rescue Plan. We delivered thousands of dollars of economic relief to working people across this country. We delivered the investment in the public health and vaccine effort to defeat this virus. We delivered billions of dollars to reopen schools and we only did it thanks to the resolve, determination and passion of Georgia voters who stood up, who stood in line, who voted in record-shattering numbers to demand change and to demand good government in the midst of a crisis.
And I`m grateful to Georgia voters. I also want to say, , I`m grateful to your audience who stood with me and Rever Warnock throughout what was a bitter campaign. The stakes were so high. Thank you to everybody out there who chipped in a few bucks and made a few phone calls.
Elections have consequences. This was never about team blue or team red putting points on the board. This was about how good policy can improve daily life for the American people. And we are demonstrating with the good public policy that we`re making with the Senate majority right now just how important it is to participate in our democracy.
 Senator, we have to squeeze in a break. When we come back, I would like to ask you about the future of the filibuster rules in the United States Senate because as they are currently in place, they can block every other thing on the Biden aga.
We`ll be right back with Senator Jon Ossoff.


 We will put the bill on the floor. We will see if our Republican fris join us. If they don`t join us, our caucus will come together and decide the appropriate action to take. Everything is on the table. Failure is not an option.
Yes?
 Leader Schumer, when you say failure is not an option, does that mean that you would consider reforming the filibuster for bills like this?
 Failure is not an option.

 Back with us, Senator Jon Ossoff of Georgia.
And Senator, I have to tell you, with so many appearances you made on this show as a candidate for senate, it really is a pleasure to be introducing you as senator tonight for the first time.
And you know, what we just heard Chuck Schumer, your leader in the senate say, he said pretty much word for word directly to me in an interview here and then directly toin an interview on her show, pretty much word for word.
You don`t have to work in the Senate as long as I did to know that what he`s saying is, he is going to make some adjustment in the current so- called filibuster rules in the senate, the rule on cloture. He`s going to change it somehow, in some way that Joe Manchin can live with. Isn`t that what`s going to happen?
 , first of all, while we`re getting nostalgic, let me just remind you that I actually announced my senate campaign on your program.
 Yes.
 So thank you for that opportunity. And thanks for having me tonight.
As for senate rules and Senator Schumer`s statements, I think there`s broad consensus within the Democratic caucus in the U.S. Senate that we may need to revise senate rules in order to govern.
Look, I entered the U.S. Senate to legislate, to legislate on behalf of the people, to deliver for the people -- as I said over and over during the campaign -- health, jobs and justice. Not to be mired in gridlock or hamstrung by senate procedure.
I think it`s worth stepping back and reassessing what we really mean by bipartisanship. Because we just passed a $. trillion stimulus that will deliver to average working families in Georgia more than $, in economic relief between the stimulus checks and the child tax credits, that`s delivering Georgia $. billion for public schools, that`s super charging the vaccine effort.
And even though it was a party line vote in the senate, there`s overwhelming bipartisan support public for this legislation. We should define bipartisanship not based upon what politicians in Washington think but based upon the breadth of popular support among the people.
And when it comes to priorities like voting rights, protecting the sacred right to vote, so infamously and gratuitously under attack in Georgia right now, when it comes to priorities like infrastructure and clean energy, taking this once-in-a-generation opportunity to upgrade our way of life, become again the world`s leader in innovation, go to a carbon free energy grid, move to an all-electric vehicle fleet, build new transit and transportation options. These are priorities that have overwhelming, broad, bipartisan support.
Again, I entered the U.S. Senate to legislate and I am absolutely open to having a discussion about changing senate rules if the minority in the senate will not heed the will of the people and pass legislation that`s obviously in the public interest, long overdue and deeply necessary and that has broad bipartisan support among the public.
 Well, you now have the pleasure on a daily basis of watching Mitch McConnell at work, up close. And I have to tell you, when I worked in the Senate in the s, Mitch McConnell was one of the reasonable Republicans. So you`re working in a very different place that I now don`t recognize.
Let`s listen to what Mitch McConnell said about any change of senate rules.

 Nobody serving in this chamber can even begin -- can even begin to imagine what a completely scorched earth senate would look like.
This chaos would not open up an express lane to liberal change. It would not open up an express lane for the Biden presidency to speed into the history books. The senate would be more like a hundred-car pile-up.

 Did Mitch McConnell scare you when he said that?
 No. Mitch McConnell doesn`t scare anybody these days. We`ll see if Mitch McConnell can hold on to his leadership of his Republican conference. He is dusting off the playbook that they ran against Barack Obama. And that is obstruction and gridlock, grind everything to a halt, prevent progress.
There is a mood in the country right now for results and good government. And let`s get specific about what that means. That means  percent support for its stimulus bill which, thanks to voters in Georgia, is projected to nearly double U.S. economic growth and add a full percent to global economic growth this year, returning us to pre-pandemic employment early next year, broad bipartisan public support.
As I said there is broad bipartisan public support for action on infrastructure and the climate. There is broad bipartisan public support for the defense of voting rights.
Mitch McConnell should listen to the people, not to the lobbyists whispering in his ear, not to the pollsters whispering in his ears -- to the people. And he should get on board with the program and play a constructive role in passing this legislation.
And if he refuses to, then we will have to assess what changes to senate rules will be necessary so that the U.S. Senate is a functional, governing, legislative body.
 Senator Ossoff, quickly before you go -- this is what I like to ask freshmen senators all the time but I usually do it in private. What is the strangest thing about the senate to you as you begin your senate career? What`s the thing where you walk back to the office and say, I just can`t believe --
 Look, I say I just can`t believe it almost every day. Because it is a place with such historical significance, and a place where so much good can be done if we, the U.S. Senate, choose to exercise our power to do good.
When I was sworn in, what I felt most profoundly was an obligation to not waste a single minute while I have the privilege and the opportunity to represent Georgia and to do good and to help people.
And it`s that same passion, that same determination to take advantage of this chance to help the United States, to help the American people that motivates me now, as I urge my colleagues -- when I got in to the Senate, I urged my colleagues. I said look, Georgia sent us with a mandate to deliver. Let`s be bold. And that`s what I continue to say when I meet with my Democratic colleagues now.
Let`s be bold. Let`s seize this moment, this opportunity for an American renaissance. Let`s leave a positive mark on history because we have the chance to do it and we cannot squander it.
 Senator Jon Ossoff, thank you very much for joining us tonight. We really appreciate it.
 Always a pleasure, . Thank you.
 Thank you.
We`ll be right back.

 Today, the first vice president of the United States of Asian descent said this about the mass murder in Atlanta.

 I do want to say to our Asian-American community that we stand with you and understand how this has frightened and shocked and outraged all people. But knowing the increasing level of hate crime against our Asian-American brothers and sisters, we also want to speak out in solidarity with them and acknowledge that none of us should ever be silent in the face of any form of hate.

 Joining us now are Amanda Nguyen, CEO and founder of the nonprofit civil rights group Rise, and Kimmy Yam, a reporter for NBC Asian America.
And Amanda, let me begin with you. And Kimmy, feel free to join in. I don`t presume to guide this discussion. I want you to just share with us your reflections and what you`re feeling about what happened in Georgia. Amanda, let`s begin with you.
 First, I just want to say thank you so much for having this piece, for covering this story.
I`m heartbroken. I`m outraged, you know. A couple of weeks ago, I turned on the camera and I asked people to hear our stories, to cover the attacks that are happening to our community, and millions of people responded. It was like fire meets gasoline. You know, half of it was people of AAPI community members saying, for the first time I feel like my grief is actually validated.
The other half were allies, people from different communities, who said, you know what, that`s a clear call to action. We`re going to stand up and help.
 Kimmy, you have been reporting on violence against Asian- Americans before this, and now you have this, which is the biggest story of its kind so far.
 Right. , this has been -- you know, I have to say I, myself, am kind of processing everything as it`s going along. And even so many of us who are, you know, reporting on a lot of these attacks and violence every single day, I think, you know, are having a little bit of trouble wrapping our minds around what we`re seeing, because it`s just so heinous.
You know, yesterday I published a piece about, you know, this report that came out that mentioned over the course of roughly  months in the pandemic, there were about , incidents that targeted Asian-Americans, having to do with the pandemic racism and kind of that racist tie between Asian-Americans and the virus.
And in that report, it was mentioned that about  percent of respondents were Asian women and, you know, a far lower share, it was around  percent, were men. And, you know, experts say that a lot of the stereotypes surrounding Asian women that were docile, were meek, that were subservient really plays into it, because it makes Asian women appear like we are easier or more vulnerable targets.
And, you know, right now I think not a ton of information has come out about the suspect and what his true motivations were. I know that he mentioned that there was no racial motivation, but given how Asian women are hyper-fetishized and sexualized in this and the specific type of racialized sexism that we deal with it is very difficult to divorce race from this conversation.
I think that, you know, we can look back to history as early as, you know, our initial entry in this country to see where this came from. You know, one of the first exclusionary laws, the Page Act, actually barred women, Asian women from coming into the country on grounds that they were deemed, you know, morally corrupt.
And, you know, I think a lot of these stereotypes that we`re, you know, sexually deviant, that we are, you know, geishas or, you know, these like sly dragon ladies, they still persist to this day. And that can`t be ignored in this conversation.
 Amanda, I saw you nodding there. Go ahead.
 I couldn`t agree more. And right now, people need to understand that there is so much pain. I think a lot of people are asking, especially as allies, what can I do? Some may feel like they don`t know the right thing to say. Others may be worried about how they can best be there. And what I want to say is it is as simple as just reaching out to your fris, your AAPI fris and saying, hey, I`m here for you. I don`t pret to understand what is going on and I can`t begin to understand how you may feel. But I want to learn.
So, please know that I`m there for you. And please let me know how I can be there for you, right? I think it`s as simple as that because at the core of the issue of what we are seeing is systematic oppression, systematic oppression in the form of systematic .
What I mean by this is not only in mainstream media but also in our education system, our workforce, our government, the AAPI narrative has been erased.
In  there was a study that showed that in some federal agencies, AAPIs aren`t even recorded under the definition of racial minorities. You know, our stories aren`t told. And stories are empathy machines.
It is incredibly critical at this point that people begin to understand and include AAPIs within their framework of what it means to be an American.
 Amanda Nguyen and Kimmy Yam, thank you both very much for joining this important discussion tonight. We really appreciate it.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
 Thank you.
And coming up, the bestselling author Min Jin Lee will join us next with her insights and reflections on the tragic mass murder in Georgia.

 It has been a week of multiple and important firsts for Asians and Asian-Americans. The first Asian woman director nominated for an Oscar, the first Asian-American nominated for a best actor, the first Asian- American woman confirmed by the senate to serve in a cabinet position -- the cabinet position of United States Trade Representative.
But last night our next guest tweeted, in less than  hours we had a historic Asian Oscar moment with multiple firsts in  years, then a mass shooting targeting three Asian owned businesses.
This is how terrorism works. You`re not allowed to feel safe, accepted or valued. We can resist. Take up space. Make noise.
Joining us now is Min Jin Lee, writer in residence at Amherst College and author of "The New York Times" best-seller "Pachinko".
Thank you very much for joining us tonight for this important discussion And I want to just open it to you. I don`t presume to guide you in this. Please guide us and share with us your thinking and feelings over the last  hours.
 Oh, good evening, . Thank you for having me and also for discussing this issue. It`s so very important for our community and also for America.
It`s a race-based crime. It`s a ger-based crime and I think that we need to frame the narrative as such. I find it really troubling to me that we keep trying to say that it is not a race based crime. So I keep bringing it back to the discussion because denying it only compounds the injury of Asian-Americans right now who are suffering under the revisiting of the yellow apparel paradigm.
 And I think what we saw -- I`ve watched an awful lot of police press conferences and today we saw the police repeatedly saying, well, he says it wasn`t race based. And it sounds like they`re investing in that, but it`s all they have at this point is what he said. That doesn`t mean it`s true.
 You know, I really like what you just said because if he says it I`m going to say it`s not how about that? When you say it`s my word against his because it seems to me that the shooter drove to three locations that are Asian-owned businesses. And then he ed up shooting in those three businesses so they were targeted Asians and Asians died.
So I think that the actual impact should represent a real intention as well. He drove to specific sites which were race-based sites.
 Yes, talk about how it feels because I think a lot of people when they`re watching this and they see the coverage of the press conference and police say well, he says it wasn`t race based, that doesn`t give you any relief at all.
 Not at all. And also the Korean press has made it clear that there were witnesses who heard him say that I`ll kill all the Asians. And because there has been a different coverage in the Korean press it makes me really wonder what is actually going on, and maybe the Korean eyewitnesses perhaps they`re not speaking to western press about what occurred because they`re embarrassed and they`re afraid.
 Do you think that this would pose a particular challenge for the police investigation dealing with Korean witnesses?
 No, absolutely not. There are multiple, multilingual people who can translate very easily between the police and the witnesses and also the victims. And also what`s really interesting to me is that we have a police chief who has a history of being anti-Asian. There`s been a report that was confirmed by "The New York Times" that on Facebook he was selling T-shirts which were anti-Chinese in sentiment.
And in addition to that he said that the young shooter was just having a very bad day. And when I have a very bad day I might have some ice cream. I don`t think that having a bad day allows you to go and kill innocent people who are working class and who are just doing their jobs.
 You know, some people heard that line as the police official was just describing what the killer told him. How did you hear that line?
 I don`t know why this young shooter gets the benefit of the doubt but working class women who are murdered and the witnesses surrounding them don`t get the benefit of the doubt.
And I think that it`s really time -- it`s high time that we need to reframe the focus in seeing who`s human and who`s not human.
As far as I`m concerned the people who are killed and the people who are witnesses around them are very much human. And just because we might have a language barrier or may not, I think that we need to really investigate.
And I think that the police chief who spoke should be immediately stepping back from his position because I don`t think he`s qualified to investigate this.
 Min Jin Lee, thank you very much for joining this important discussion tonight. We really appreciate it.
 Thank you, .
 Thank you.

 " WITH" starts right now.
Hi,
 Hi, Nicolle. Thank you so much
Welcome to . I am.
We have a big show tonight.
President Biden touting his historic COVID bill. News on Republican confusion about how to deal with something. Are they for it or against it?
Also tonight, I`m thrilled to tell you award-winning journalist Soledad O`Brien joins us here live. That`s in this upcoming segment. So we will see her very soon.
Plus, there are charges now officially in the death of Capitol Hill police officer Brian Sicknick. Neal Katyal joins us on that important story later.
We begin right now with President Biden heading out on this tour. He is going to go to multiple states, along with Vice President Harris and their partners, a landmark stimulus bill that has been stalked, as everybody knows now, with these progressive options, these answers, these ideas for what should be done to tackle the COVID crisis, such as it is now, and to try to rebound and get on the road forward.
Democrats are now eying this openly, as both a solution set of plans for the nation and a political weapon, possible keys to Democrats` chances of winning something that they see as fundamental for this Biden era, which would be more seats in Congress.
There are signs the message may be breaking through,  percent -- that is a supermajority in any time period, and especially in this polarized era --  percent of Americans approving of Joe Biden`s handling of COVID, the main issue, of course, of the year, and his overall approval rating up to  percent. That itself is up six points from just last week.
If you have been watching , we have been charting some of these numbers because they are unusual. And they suggest a break with the politics and the polarization of the last four years, at least on some issues.
It speaks to a bet the President Biden and his team are making, that Americans obviously need help, that this doesn`t have to be about party, no matter what happens in Washington, and that the federal government providing that help will put Republican politicians in a bind, if they won`t get on board and work with Democrats.
And, as I mentioned, we have a big show. We have Soledad O`Brien coming up.
But we begin with a fri of ours who has walked through so many of these issues in the recent era, Joan Walsh, national affairs correspondent for "The Nation."
Good to see you.
 Good to see you too.
 I wanted to begin with you, because you have charted this for a long time. I think I missed NBC viewers and your readers know that, the debates over health care and the Obama era, everything in the last four years.
And what we see tonight, which is President Biden, Vice President Harris, and a lot of other Democrats saying, this is big, they`re proud of it -- parts of it are obviously big sping liberalism. They`re saying great. And not only that, they`re going to go out and tour on it.
What do you see as important here? Because it`s where the policy meets the politics, as I mentioned.
 Well, I think even small things, like the vice president going to a vaccination site, Ari, is a big thing.
I think that they cannot let the COVID pieces of this get lost in the bigger picture, even though I love the bigger picture. And they need to sell that. And I will say more about that. But I thought it was great that she got out there.
I think they really have to show that we are helping get the vaccine out there. We are helping open schools. I mean, this is so important. We -- there`s lots of money to do that. I don`t know that it`s sufficient. We don`t know what will be sufficient, but they really are addressing -- they`re not coming down on a side of parents, teachers unions, this whole awful thing we have been seeing.
They are really saying, there`s a way to do it safely. And we`re going to provide the funding and the infrastructure to do it safely.
So I think things like that are big. People want to feel like we`re getting back to some good kind of normal. And then the underlying things that are, I think, going to take months to surface, but they need to be talking about them, is that this bill is really going -- this act, this already past plan is going to deal with structural unemployment.
It`s going to put a lot of people back to work or back fully to work who had been left out even before COVID. And I think they know that. And I think that they are going to be about explaining that too.
But I think they have just got to get out there, show what`s happening, and just build up the hope. There`s like a pent-up demand for hope. And this bill is going to start to meet that demand, I think.
 I hear that.
Joan stays with us. I want to spotlight another piece of this, which is Republicans trying to take credit for a stimulus package that, as people following politics know, zero Republicans supported in Congress, some of them getting into suppose for this.
Now Republican Congresswoman Maria Elvira Salazar has been touting the inclusion of -- quote -- "bipartisan relief" -- that`s her term -- for small businesses. Of course, she was part of the partisan wall against it.
Similar hypocrisy on display with Republican Senator Roger Wicker. And he got some heat for that. It`s part of a wider issue for Republicans struggling to villainize what Biden is doing, which gets hard when you think about the way Biden empathizes and the general approach he`s taken and how out of step what you`re about to see is with most of the country and the polling I mentioned.
Some of it borders on the ridiculous.

 An egomaniac and a narcissist taking credit for the work of Donald Trump.
 This is a free country. How dare you tell us who we can sp the Fourth of July with?
 I didn`t know he was a party planner.
 Threatens to take away the cookie if the little children don`t behave.
 The word that came to my mind was bizarro. It was a bizarro speech.
 It seemed to tag like a funeral for America.
 Most disgusting, propagandistic speech that a demagogue, even a politician has ever given.

 Jones stays with us.
And we bring into the conversation Professor Jason .
Your thoughts, sir?
 It`s like Joe Biden is Mike Jones. Like, nobody -- nobody wanted him back then. But now that he`s passed the stimulus bill, everybody wants their hands on the stimmy. Everybody wants to take credit for it. Everybody wants it in their community back.
It`s so bizarre.
 Back then, they didn`t want him. Now they all on him. Strong.
: Now they all on him. Now they all on him.
It`s amazing to me. And here`s the thing. We saw the same thing with Obama, right, with the stimulus package. You saw people like Paul Ryan, oh, the stimulus package is a terrible idea. And then he`s writing letters to get his hands on some of the cash. That is what we`re seeing right now with Joe Biden.
And here`s the problem, though. I don`t think this is going to hold up. I think as the stimulus money starts to really -- the COVID relief money starts to creep into neighborhoods, the biggest thing, if some of this money can be put -- and it can be -- towards school repair, ventilation, getting people back into buildings, it will be very hard for a local Republican member of Congress or the Senate to take credit for people getting back into school this fall or next summer, when they didn`t vote for it.
And that`s why I think this is really going to blow up in their faces.
 Joan.
 Yes.
And I think Democrats have to make sure that happens. I mean, I think they have to just consistently -- and I see it on Twitter. I see it with some of our hilarious congresspeople just calling them out. You will not get away with taking credit for this, because, OK, maybe you -- there was an amment, there was an idea, you had a conversation.
You voted to kill this piece of legislation. If you had your way, none of this money would be going out for anything to anybody. You cannot pull this off, people. And I just see so much more sophistication. And we just have so many more -- I hope this doesn`t sound trivial, but we have so many more members of Congress, House and Senate, who are smart about social media, and use it really well.
They don`t stoop to sad level. They`re not mocking people. They`re not ginning up mobs against people, but they are funny, and they are just there for everything. And I think it matters. I think it`s going to be very hard for them to -- for these liars to pull this off.

 Yes, Joan, you`re talking about the way politics lives now. And while the newest -- whatever the newest platform may be, can feel, as you said, potentially trivial or somehow different -- FDR had radio fireside chats. Kennedy was a master of television.
 Right.
 Barack Obama used the Internet to great effect for fund-raising. It really helped him get around part of the establishment. But it was an earlier stage.
We now have, as you say, people like AOC and others in the Democratic Caucus who are using that to do truth-squadding and fact-checking, as well as what else it can be for, which is sharing pictures or recipes or any anything else, right? It`s part of it.
And I do think it`s interesting, both of you speaking to the point that there`s kind of a Republican problem here of a reverse John Kerry. And they`re basically saying ,when it comes to the stimulus, they were for it after they were against it.
And that never -- that never plays well in politics.
: Right.
 I have one more item I want to hit.
But, Jason, go ahead.
: Well, yes, and that`s the problem.
It`s like people can see -- this is what I have always said about sping money. Tax cuts, you may or may not feel it. It deps on what you own. Joe Biden may not put his names on this stimulus checks, right, but people know where the money came from. They`re going to know where the new bridge came from.
They`re going to know that that school is open, because it came from the money. It`s something that people can touch and feel and has changed their lives. And it`s very hard to take credit for something that you didn`t lay your hands on to begin with.
 Both of our panelists stay.
The other piece we want to hit is, we`re tracking different parts of this that are so important, the vaccine rate, which we all track in the media, and now some partisan fissures. News today that a third of Republican voters are saying they just won`t get the vaccine. NBC News just caught up with some of them.

 I think the whole coronavirus was probably largely political, and I would think that the vaccine would probably go along with that.
 I don`t think that it`s  percent safe and effective.
 I don`t trust the vaccine at all.

 Now, people are entitled to their feelings and their health freedom.
The news, though, comes at an interesting time, because there have been, of course, public health advocacy efforts. We have done fact-checks on this. The vaccine is safe. It is working. And there are shifts in attitudes among what are sometimes called vaccine hesitance cohorts.
For example, among black and Hispanic Americans, there was more initial hesitancy seen, but they now in polling are just as willing and sometimes more so to get the vaccine compared to white Americans. Last winter, people of color voiced more concerns. And, of course, there are many real disparities in terms of health care and vaccine access, but evidence here that the public health campaigns may be working.
Dr. Fauci meanwhile, saying this about his former boss, Donald Trump, and vaccines.

 I think it would make all the difference in the world. He`s a very widely popular person among Republicans. If he came out and said, go and get vaccinated, it seems absolutely inevitable that the vast majority of people who are his close followers would listen to him.

 That`s the doctor`s view. We have to be as precise as possible. It is true that former President Trump told his followers to get the vaccine in his one post-presidential speaking address at CPAC.
Meanwhile, President Biden`s actually downplaying the idea that Trump is much of a factor. He says it`s more important what people and conservatives hear from their own social groups and networks.
Jason and Joan are here.
Joan, your thoughts on this? Because one key part of public health messaging is to engage people, to be factual and to be as respectful inclusive as possible, whether someone is against it because of what they heard and read, or because they are a libertarian with skepticism of the government, or they have other skepticism of the government, but all this playing out now.
And we`re seeing the public health messaging chipping away at some, but not some of those younger Republicans, Joan.
 I think it`s really interesting, Ari, because we did have -- and it was a very real, I think, in the beginning, concern among African-Americans and other groups that they were not sure that this was OK.
And it was deeply rooted in historic racism, racist health practices. But what`s been really great to see is that there`s been effort at outreach, and it`s been very successful. People have been reached where they are. It`s not enough yet. The vaccine is not nearly available enough in a lot of communities.
But the skepticism is going down, and the rate of vaccination is going up. And I liked what President Biden said today. I do think that a lot of people who, God bless them, their allegiance is with Trump. They`re still reachable by their pastor, their doctor, public health people, their sister-in-law.
I think that it probably could be a similar kind of effort that reaches them where there they are. And I don`t think we need Donald Trump. I don`t think we`re going to get him. I just don`t -- I don`t think we should be looking at that kind of celebrity public health outreach.
I think it`s better to be close to the community.
 Right, and getting the right information out, and then people can steep themselves in it. The age gap also interesting, because elderly Republicans who have seen the damage are not as quick to be ideological about passing on this, which speaks to some of the obvious risk factor.
 Yes.
 Joan and Jason kicking us off tonight, my thanks to both of you.
We turn now, as promised, to my one-on-one interview with award-winning journalist Soledad O`Brien, CEO of Soledad O`Brien Productions, host of "Matter of Fact," and a veteran of many parts of media that our viewers recall.
Thanks for being here.
 Hi, nice to see you. How are you?
 I`m good, thanks.
We have been having this discussion and charting where the COVID bill is going and where the views of the nation are. You have covered so many big, historic stories and crises. And I have a lot of things I want to get to you with.
But my first question tonight would be, how do you think this president is doing, big picture, -some in, with this nation looking to round a corner?
 Yes, I think, if you look at the polls, the polls say people like what he`s selling at this moment.
I know we talk a lot about bipartisanshipness. That`s not quite a word, but this idea that, is it by partisan when no Republicans are voting for the American rescue bill?
And I would actually say, don`t worry so much about the people in Congress. What do Americans who sit on both sides the aisle or -- and others, what do they think? And you can see that it`s obviously very popular.
So, as much as today, as you well know, and over the last few days, there have been many conversations about President Biden, is he going to do a presser, when are we going to hear from him, I think that`s just a little bit of a lot of fluff, that, in actuality, what you can see is, in the poll numbers, that he`s doing pretty well with the American people, who have a lot on their plate, right?
You`re dealing with an economic crisis. You`re dealing with people who are literally hungry. You`re dealing with parents who can`t figure out when their kids are actually going to go back to school full-time. You`re dealing with a global pandemic. People would like to get their money from the government. They would also like to get a vaccine, a large number of people.
So, I think, with all those crises happening on many fronts, I think the polls would show you that he`s doing well.
 Yes. Yes.
And that`s the context, as you say, to what`s more bipartisan than tens of millions of Trump voters supporting Joe Biden`s first big act? It`s actually a striking thing happening here in broad daylight.
What we`re going to do here is, we get to keep Soledad.
So, thank you for staying.
We have our shortest break. In just  seconds, we`re going to get into this backlash to a top Republican saying he`s more afraid of BLM than the January  rioters.
We`re back with Soledad in  seconds.

 We`re back with Soledad O`Brien.
Republican Senator Ron  taking heat today for his comments about the insurrection. This is the other big story we wanted to get to.
He is asserting that he did not personally feel threatened by those rioters who violently stormed the Capitol on January , were engaged in those attacks on officers and other violence. And then he went on to say, but if they were BLM protesters, it`d be different. Take a look.

 On January , I never felt threatened, because I didn`t. I knew those are people that love this country, that truly respect law enforcement, would never do anything to break a law. And so I wasn`t concerned.
Now, had the tables been turned -- and, Joe, this could get me in trouble. Had the tables been turned and President Trump won the election, and those were tens of thousands of Black Lives Matter and Antifa protesters, I might have been a little concerned.


 Soledad?
 Where do you begin, right, with something that`s overtly racist and bigoted?
And I have interviewed Senator  many times. And I think, as he was saying, this is going to get me into trouble -- people, right before they say something that`s going to get them into trouble, often say, this is going to get me into trouble, and he`s right.
Listen, that was not a dog whistle. That was kind of a bullhorn. He said, these people, these are people who love their country. Well, let`s just remind everybody that they beat a police officer with a flagpole;  of the  have been charged with a serious crime. He said, these are people who respect the law, right?
So, either he has no idea what`s happening, or he is just lying to you, right? Those are kind of the two options we`re left with at this moment. And so I don`t know how you manage to think that Senator , who said he would feel much more comfortable than if it were the BLM, Black Lives Matter, protesters, who are black, overwhelmingly, right, obviously, a ridiculous comparison, ludicrous, because, of course, we`re talking about public protest, as opposed to a protest to literally specifically try to overturn democracy.
And also  percent of Black Lives Matter protests had no violence involved at all. So it`s just disgusting. I mean, I literally -- I read that and say, here`s a guy who has said the quiet part out loud. That is a racist thing. He felt like these people who were literally beating, pummeling police officers, that they somehow are better than Black Lives Matter protesters.
Well, gee, what`s the difference? Maybe it`s their skin color. It`s kind of disgusting, to be honest.
 Yes. I appreciate your candor.
There are times where politicians` ignorance or lack of information may be relevant. But we happen to be in the particular situation of knowing that he not only lived through the attack, but lived through a Senate impeachment trial, with voluminous evidence and hours of video that he sat through.
And whether he sometimes looked away or not or daydreamed, he saw and experience that. So it seems to be a feature of this deliberate governing white supremacy to almost sort of troll everyone by just denying those facts and then blatantly, as you put it, racializing it.
As for the overpolicing of Black Lives Matter...

 Go ahead.
 We`re in a weird time, right, where there`s this sort of double down, right, where you can just literally gaslight people. You can just say the opposite of the thing, and not because you`re mistaken, not because you don`t understand the facts, not because, oops, you`re confused, you have misread into something, but you literally do understand.
As you point out, he does understand, obviously. And he`s just decided, for the audience that he`s talking to -- and often I believe this is because you can take a lot of these comments on social media and slice and dice them and chop them up and make sure you`re serving the public that wants to believe some of the things that he`s saying. So, it`s very intentional, which makes it all the more disturbing, right?
He`s really gaslighting the American public, and then trying to speak very specifically to a population that actually feels OK about what they saw happening at the Capitol. And, again, look at the reports -- you guys have covered this -- of the impact upon just the police officers who are serving.
It`s just so horrific to read. It`s so appalling that he would do this. But he`s a smart dude.
 Right.
 I mean, I know Senator . He`s not a fool. But he`s decided to elevate kind of a racist conversation in order to reach out to some of his followers, which I`m not sure what his strategy is long term on that.
 Well, I appreciate that you mention that, because this is the important part of it being more than just a controversial statement by a public official.
We`re covering it tonight. We want people to understand. In a non-legal sense. I`m not talking about a prosecutorial standard, but in a non-legal sense, this type of leadership from a member of the Upper Chamber, the Senate, as a white governing member of a political branch of government, is providing aid and comfort to the illegal insurrectionists.
Again, I`m not saying he legally planned it, but I am saying that it`s after-the-fact defense and it`s trying to say, in support of them, he wants to label them as falsely peaceful. They were violent. Falsely patriotic, as he put it. No, they were attacking police officers, as you reminded everyone.

 And then flip it BLM. And I have one fact-check on that.
 Yes, you`re right. He said that they had a respect for law enforcement. He did not.

 Yes.
One fact-check I want to put up with regard to overpolicing, so folks remember. In the immediate aftermath of these events, there were BLM protests in Washington. They were peaceful.
And even for nonviolent offenses related to not attacking officers, not violent, there were -- we will show you the arrests here for the audience in June --  arrests around the Washington area for Floyd, George Floyd- related protests, peaceful.
That day at the Capitol, when they were so overwhelmed, and so many people were treated with great reticence by the overwhelmed police force, there were only  arrests. And we now know, because there have been more since then, that that initial disparate policing didn`t reflect anything other than a problem in policing, because it turns out, as you mentioned, Soledad, there were hundreds of actual offenses.
They have only been slowly coming in later, and some of them coming in after the DOJ changed hands, Soledad.
 Yes, when he says they wouldn`t break the law, they were people who respect law enforcement, these are people who love their country, literally, these three things, those three comments are utterly false. They are untrue.
Clearly not people who love this country, clearly people who do not respect law enforcement, unless you consider beating somebody with a flagpole respecting law enforcement, and certainly not people who wouldn`t break the law. We now know that something like  of the  have been charged with crimes, serious crimes.
So it`s just untrue. And so I do -- I really, truly wonder about Senator  a lot. Like, what brings someone to say those things who`s a -- I think a relatively well-respected elected official, to say those things that are just absolutely bold-faced lies? They`re just lies. They are just lies.
 I really appreciate getting your straight-up take on it.
There`s important aspects to this story beyond just the so-called controversy. And we have tried to tease some of those out tonight.
Soledad O`Brien, always good to see you. Thanks for sticking around for two blocks.
 My pleasure.
 Appreciate it.
We have a lot more in the program tonight, including why AOC and Biden are agreeing on something big today, what she`s doing helping the Biden administration.
 The Biden DOJ is now run by Merrick Garland, and they`re moving fast on the rioters. We have big news, and Neal Katyal, my special guest, live -- after this.

 Moments ago, the Senate just made history tonight, confirming Deb Haaland as the first Native American secretary of the interior.
Wanted to give you that news update.
We`re turning now to another new Cabinet member, Attorney General Merrick Garland`s first full week on the job, and the Justice Department he oversees barreling ahead on its wide-ranging case against the January  insurrectionists, which Garland said would be his top priority at his confirmation hearings.
Well, today, the feds making two more key arrests, indicting two men for attacking Capitol Police officer Brian Sicknick, who died the day after he sustained injuries at the insurrection and riot, the men indicted on nine counts, including assault for using highly dangerous bear spray against police. They face up to  years in prison if convicted.
Here are some of the photos the feds released. It shows the man from the view of a police body camera, while the wider investigation and related court filings are revealing new details on the intel, like how a Texas militia member`s own family told the FBI as far back as late December  that he was going to do some serious damage related to federal legislators in D.C., and when he stormed the Capitol, he was armed, and he soon was threatening more violence to come, admitting that he and others had thousands of weapons and fired no rounds, writing that, the next time, they will not be so cordial.
We`re back with former acting U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal, an  legal analyst.
The significance, in your view, of these indictments?
 So, first of all, Ari, I just want to say, it is just an outstanding thing that Secretary Haaland was just confirmed.
For the last decade, I have gotten to work with the Native American community a lot. And this is the first Native American -- Native American to serve in the United States Cabinet ever in over  years. This is a big, big deal. And I think the president and everyone should feel really proud about this.
And with respect to the developments today, I think that they paint a really serious and damaging picture, first about Officer Sicknick and the attack on three different police officers perpetrated by these two individuals. I guess these guys are evidently fris from New Jersey. Everything is legal in New Jersey, I guess, like that.
But they used bear spray or some sort of chemical to disable these three police officers and possibly led to or contributed to the death of Officers Sicknick. And they were I.D.ed by surveillance videos.
And I`m not sure what makes less sense for these two, the idea that they came in to the Capitol carrying bear spray, or the fact that one of them was wearing a sweatshirt from the restaurant he owns. But somehow they were I.D.ed.
And that, I think, Ari, picks up on what you were just having, the conversation was Soledad. It`s just astounding to me that, on January , so many people were let go, including these two individuals. In the Black Lives Matter protests, as you were saying, lots of people were arrested, here,  people arrested. Everyone else got to, like, go back to the Trump Hotel and whoop it up, like oper -- insurrection or something like that.
And I think we need a really serious investigation into that. How did all these people get let go after invading the Capitol?
 Yes. I mean, I appreciate you saying that. I remember sitting where I am right now that day, and we were tracking a lot of different stories and our reporters were out there and we were getting the videos in.
But you and I have been around law enforcement in various ways. I remember watching even after they had retaken the grounds, watching people filing out of there, still mischievous, still lollygagging, still making their own social media videos, evidence now, but some officers -- and, again, we try to be precise.
Officers were overwhelmed at times. But some officers were walking them out and not even attempting, even appearing to attempt any arrests. Everyone on the grounds at that point was trespassing. You have that arrest, at a minimum.
I want to ask you about some of the portrait we`re getting about these people. It does fit, as you mentioned, with what we discussed earlier on the show and the attempt to minimize or lie about who these people are.
I have seen online people say, some -- there are some hard calls out there. You don`t want to do guilt by association. But if you find you`re hanging out with a lot of Nazis, usually a bad sign for where you`re headed.
And we have Nazis and neo-Nazis here. And that`s what they are. And that`s what they believe. And it`s Aryan white supremacy. And they hate a lot of different groups. And this is real. So, let`s deal with it as a society and let`s not have people or some Republican senators minimize it.
To that , here`s an alleged Capitol rioter that literally grew a -- quote -- "Hitler mustache." They`re also, we should note, still active in the Army, a Reservist arrest on suspicion for the January  riot known to most of his co-workers as a white supremacist and a Nazi sympathizer who grew a -- quote -- "Hitler mustache" while working as a Navy contractor with a security clearance.
Neal, I`m not going to come up with a question. Just take it away.
 Well, Ari, you`re absolutely right.
There are different buckets of people. There are some of these people who are neo-Nazis or true insurrectionists who wanted to go in and have weapons and other things and attack people. Others are kind of giving aid and comfort. And there are distinctions. Everyone`s entitled to the presumption of innocence.
But I think what you`re pointing to is something, a lot going on in parts of our society, absolutely. And some of it involves military. Some of it involves police officers. Today, I think there was a filing in Fresno or some indication that there`s a police officer there that was involved in the January  attacks.
And so this all damages tremously the notion of law enforcement, in which  percent of these people are good, and you have got these bad apples that do these horrous, horrific things.
The doctrine of conspiracy does permit, I think, prosecutors to start going after these individuals, and in a very broad way. And Judge Garland knows these doctrines really well, both as a judge and as a prosecutor, and someone who led the Oklahoma City bombing.
So, I have every confidence that it`s going to be done right now. But it`s sad to me that it`s been more than two months since these attacks, and for at least the key first  days, I`m not sure what, if anything, happened.
 Yes, yes. All important points.
Neal Katyal, thank you, as always.
We remind everyone, you can go to .com/openingarguments to see this and other reports by Neal.
Up ahead, as promised, AOC and Biden linking up. We will explain, but, first, new reporting on Donald Trump`s political exile and why Republicans say he`s completely adrift and how it can help Biden -- when we come back.

 We`re roughly  days into this Biden presidency.
And there`s a lot of talk about a return to some kind of normalcy in Washington, from a president addressing the nation honestly about a national crisis -- that hadn`t happened in a while -- to just getting major legislation passed.
And while those things relate to the new president, turns out the ex- president is also acting traditional in one way. For all the hype and bluster and threats, so far, Donald Trump is actually turning out a lot like other ex-presidents in both parties, who largely avoided the political spotlight and the daily fray of political fighting.
Now, the reasons may be different. Trump was booted from Twitter over alleged incitement. And Trump is more nationally polarizing than most ex- presidents in either party. But -plus days in, we can see he`s largely avoided attacking Biden in public or going on TV, which he used to like doing, or really doing much of anything in public, save that one speech at CPAC.
He`s mostly stayed out of view at Mar-a-Lago. Republican politicians clearly want to stay popular with MAGA voters. He is the former nominee. But, as for their leader, Politico has a whole new article about how Trump is now adrift in political exile and far from the -- quote -- "political Godzilla" that some Republicans were bracing for, reporting that, while he does have this PAC and office, even Republicans don`t know what that PAC is actually doing.
And thus his recent actions are largely met with a shrug by the GOP. It is, to some, an unexpected event. And it has political implications.
So, we are joined by Meridith McGraw, Politico White House reporter who co- authored that particular article. Also with us is Sam Nunberg, former adviser to Donald Trump.
Meridith, what gives?
 Well, President Trump, his post-presidency was supposed to beat Trump continuing to be the major power player Godzilla over the party. He threatened to maybe form a third party. That never ed up happening.
There was talks about him joining another social media platform once he was booted from Twitter. There were talks about him even forming his own news empire. That didn`t happen either.
And the president, the former president, has also talked about trying to take revenge and support insurgent Republican candidates. But, so far, he`s really supported pretty traditional Republican candidates. When he has chosen to weigh in, it`s been a little bit all over the map.
And as you said in your intro, he`s largely avoided attacking Biden, when he does go out there on the public stage.
 Yes.
Sam, we lived through the Trump era together. You remember all that, right?
 We certainly did.
 And...
 I certainly do.
 This is your first time back on  post-inauguration.
I`m curious your view of the reporting in Meridith`s piece, if you think that premise is shaping up correctly. And, if so, why is Donald Trump so quiet?
 Well, I respect Meridith. I respect her reporting.
I actually don`t agree, necessarily, with the premise, for the following reasons. As you just said, we`re only  days out. I have fris that work for him in that political apparatus that he does have, the Save America PAC. It`s run by Jason Miller, Bill Stepien, Justin Clark. Those are three people that were from the campaign.
As with everything with Donald Trump, we now see that there`s intrigue. There`s others that want to start a separate PAC, such as Corey Lewandowski and David Bossie. There are people competing to bring their own clients to get Trump`s orsement.
And what Miller and that triumvirate have done is, they`re trying to create a straighter process. So -- but they`re not around him all day. He`s doing book interviews on Thursdays and Fridays. He`s going to be announcing that he`s coming out with a book.
The social media platform is also going to -- I`m told going to come out. But, yes, we are only  days out. Remember, this is a man who should have, but didn`t expect to be leaving the Oval Office on January , right?
So, he`s still in shock, I`m sure, from those couple weeks.

 Yes, I will jump in to say, I mean, the reporting is about these first -some days.
So, you may through your sources and your sense of it see where the -- where it may go in another  days, or how it may look going into midterms.
I will say that you -- we -- all three of us know that Donald Trump does care about his public image. Press and public adulation is probably one of the only constants in his entire chaotic life.
We checked on this methodically, because the numbers can tell the story. I`m going to show you this recent period going from about the fall campaign through the election, through January, which was, of course, what we lived through on the insurrection. This is from Google. So it`s a macro-data set. And you can see obviously where things spike, around the election, November, debates, right, then January .
What you see in the right-hand corner there is a complete crash, Sam.
I`m curious, not just from Twitter, but from staying off TV, and, as Meridith wrote, really not even hitting Biden on even stuff where he could.
 Right.
 Trump is at now an all-time low since he entered politics.
Do you think he knows that? Do you think he cares? What about that?
 I think he does. Look, does he know it? Will he admit it is the answer.
I`m sure he knows. Meridith did talk about her piece -- and let`s remember he issues these press releases. Those are really just his string tweets. He cannot tweet anymore. He`s been deplatformed. So, there are times where he will want to do that. And it`s just basically going to be internecine fights within the Republican Party.
The larger picture, though, going into the midterms that you have to remember is, his orsement is determinative of those primaries, at least  percent of them. Whether Mitch McConnell likes it, whether Cheney likes it, that is the reality.
And that`s why you have seen him already orse through Lindsey Graham`s visit at Mar-a-Lago incumbents in certain states in those Senate races. We...
 Right.
 Republicans -- I say we. We have two senators that are retiring. I guarantee you that at least one of them will be a nominee who he orses in Ohio and Missouri.
You`re looking at Arizona. He has a major role to play.
 Yes.
 And Mitch McConnell has played this so badly.
And that`s where -- I that`s where I think that you will see Trump will be back, regardless of whether he runs in .

 Sam, you`re sounding Trumpier than we remember you.
 I`m not Trumpian, no.

 I want to get Meridith in briefly.
The other reason that...
 I`m just giving analysis. I`m just giving analysis.
 No, I know you`re not. That`s -- no, I know.
But you`re sounding more sympathetic to their view, is all I`m saying. I`m not criticizing one way or the other.

 I despise Donald Trump. Just so everybody knows, I despise Donald.

 Well, we -- I think our viewers remember some of that.
Real quick, I want to get Meridith in there.
Obviously, Godzillas also have trouble tweeting because they have no opposable thumbs.

 But, Meridith, your final word on this?
 The former president just came out with another statement tonight through his Save America PAC that was talking about a correction to "The Washington Post" story about the election in Georgia.
But I do find it notable that, right now, so much of the conversation is about how do we get so many members of the American public, especially Republicans who are skeptical of the vaccine, signed up and getting vaccinated?
And it was notable that the former president did not appear in that ad with other former presidents, including Carter and Bush and Obama and Clinton. And he has this incredible platform. He`s somebody that half of the country really wants to hear from, and he could be using that platform to encourage people to take this vaccine, and, hopefully, over to the  -- help us find a light at the  of the tunnel of this pandemic.
 Yes.
Well, it was really interesting reporting. So, that`s what we wanted to get into it with you, Meridith.
Sam, good to see you again. Appreciate both of you.
 Thank you.
 AOC -- thank you -- AOC getting Biden`s back, common ground, an interesting story -- when we return.

 Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, also known as AOC, is connecting with her constituency.

 OK, we`re now live.
Hello, everybody. I`m in trouble now.
Oh, yes, you guys like my haircut? You guys are talking about it? Let`s not started another national crisis over it, right?

 OK, can you guys see me? Thank goodness gracious.


 AOC has a huge following.
She`s become a progressive leader. And she`s very effective at using social media, something we touched on earlier tonight. She`s also using that power to advocate for the Biden COVID bill, and not just saying it`s a good thing. She`s actually been using that influential presence as a type of constituent services, including for people who may or may not be in her district, with information-rich posts like this to let people know what`s in the law.
The checks make headlines, but there are many other benefits. Consider that FEMA will now under this new law have a program that reimburses people for what can be costly COVID-related funeral expenses incurred last year.
Or take the $ billion that will go explicitly to previously underrepresented farmers of color who have lost much land over the years, including from government discrimination and other debt policies.
Or take  percent of adult renters who report not being up on their rent. The new law adds $ billion, billion, specifically in rental assistance, plus $ billion for people who need aid for the homeless.
It`s one way that AOC is using her perch, her skills and her communications, which clearly are effective, and using them on behalf of Joe Biden on a place and an area where they agree.
And we wanted to update you on that.
Now, we have a lot more in the show, believe it or not. We`re near the  of the hour, but something very special about George Floyd and how politics hit the Grammys big just last night.

 Many have reflected on the adversity and pain of  and the voices and the art that has emerged from such a tough year.
We recently heard from director Shaka King and singer H.E.R., who teamed up together for a movie probing civil rights in America. And while she made waves with her George Floyd anthem "I Can`t Breathe" all year -- it was an important song -- we talked about it in our exted digital interview.
And here`s part of that airing now for the first time.

 There`s people who choose not to see the problem, and they choose to say, well, I`m not a racist, so I don`t -- I`m not contributing to the problem.
But the idea is that we all need to be actively trying to create change, because, if you try to stay neutral, then you are a part of the problem.

 That`s what she told us about her work.
The news tonight is, the Grammys just chose that very ballad as the song of the year at last night`s awards.
H.E.R. spoke about what it meant.

 I didn`t imagine that my fear and that my pain would turn into impact and it would possibly turn into change. And I think that`s what this is about. And that`s why I write music. That`s why I do this.
So, I`m so, so, so grateful.

 Meanwhile, today, there`s also Oscar news rolling in, where H.E.R.`s collaborator, Shaka King, who we just showed, got two nominations for the film "Judas and the Black Messiah," while another political movie about race and police brutality, "Two Distant Strangers," got an Oscar nomination for best live action short film.
The movie is directed by Travon Free and stars Zaria and Joey Bada$$, who recently joined us to discuss the project.
There may be a theme here that strong art confronting America`s problems and racism is getting noticed.
Now, on , we s our congrats and good luck to all the artists nominees. And we know most don`t do it for the awards. To quote another rapper/actor -- or is he an actor/rapper -- Drake, just trying to stay alive and take care of my people, and they don`t have no award for that. Trophies. Trophies. And this don`t come with trophies. Ain`t no envelopes to open.
Or, in this case, with all due respect to the actor and rapper, if taking care of people sometimes does come with an envelope, so be it.
